The Great GatsbyBy F. Scott FitzgeraldDownload free eBooks of classic literature, books and novels at Planet eBook. Subscribe to our free eBooks blogand email newsletter.Then wear the gold hat, if that will move her;If you can bounce high, bounce for her too,Till she cry ‘Lover, gold-hatted, high-bouncing lover,I must have you!’—THOMAS PARKE D’INVILLIERSThe Great GatsbyChapter 1In my younger and more vulnerable years my father gaveme some advice that I’ve been turning over in my mindever since.‘Whenever you feel like criticizing any one,’ he told me,‘just remember that all the people in this world haven’t hadthe advantages that you’ve had.’He didn’t say any more but we’ve always been unusuallycommunicative in a reserved way, and I understood that hemeant a great deal more than that. In consequence I’m in-clined to reserve all judgments, a habit that has opened upmany curious natures to me and also made me the victimof not a few veteran bores. The abnormal mind is quick todetect and attach itself to this quality when it appears in anormal person, and so it came about that in college I wasunjustly accused of being a politician, because I was privyto the secret griefs of wild, unknown men. Most of the con-fidences were unsought—frequently I have feigned sleep,preoccupation, or a hostile levity when I realized by someunmistakable sign that an intimate revelation was quiver-ing on the horizon—for the intimate revelations of youngmen or at least the terms in which they express them areusually plagiaristic and marred by obvious suppressions.Reserving judgments is a matter of infinite hope. I am stilla little afraid of missing something if I forget that, as my fa-Free eBooks at Planet eBook.comther snobbishly suggested, and I snobbishly repeat a senseof the fundamental decencies is parcelled out unequally atbirth.And, after boasting this way of my tolerance, I come tothe admission that it has a limit. Conduct may be foundedon the hard rock or the wet marshes but after a certain pointI don’t care what it’s founded on. When I came back fromthe East last autumn I felt that I wanted the world to be inuniform and at a sort of moral attention forever; I want-ed no more riotous excursions with privileged glimpsesinto the human heart. Only Gatsby, the man who gives hisname to this book, was exempt from my reaction—Gatsbywho represented everything for which I have an unaffect-ed scorn. If personality is an unbroken series of successfulgestures, then there was something gorgeous about him,some heightened sensitivity to the promises of life, as if hewere related to one of those intricate machines that registerearthquakes ten thousand miles away. This responsivenesshad nothing to do with that flabby impressionability whichis dignified under the name of the ‘creative temperament’—it was an extraordinary gift for hope, a romantic readinesssuch as I have never found in any other person and whichit is not likely I shall ever find again. No—Gatsby turnedout all right at the end; it is what preyed on Gatsby, whatfoul dust floated in the wake of his dreams that temporarilyclosed out my interest in the abortive sorrows and short-winded elations of men.My family have been prominent, well-to-do people inthis middle-western city for three generations. The Car-The Great Gatsbyraways are something of a clan and we have a tradition thatwe’re descended from the Dukes of Buccleuch, but the ac-tual founder of my line was my grandfather’s brother whocame here in fifty-one, sent a substitute to the Civil War andstarted the wholesale hardware business that my father car-ries on today.I never saw this great-uncle but I’m supposed to looklike him—with special reference to the rather hard-boiledpainting that hangs in Father’s office. I graduated from NewHaven in 1915, just a quarter of a century after my father,and a little later I participated in that delayed Teutonic mi-gration known as the Great War. I enjoyed the counter-raidso thoroughly that I came back restless. Instead of being thewarm center of the world the middle-west now seemed likethe ragged edge of the universe—so I decided to go east andlearn the bond business. Everybody I knew was in the bondbusiness so I supposed it could support one more singleman. All my aunts and uncles talked it over as if they werechoosing a prep-school for me and finally said, ‘Why—ye-es’ with very grave, hesitant faces. Father agreed to financeme for a year and after various delays I came east, perma-nently, I thought, in the spring of twenty-two.The practical thing was to find rooms in the city but it wasa warm season and I had just left a country of wide lawnsand friendly trees, so when a young man at the office sug-gested that we take a house together in a commuting townit sounded like a great idea. He found the house, a weatherbeaten cardboard bungalow at eighty a month, but at thelast minute the firm ordered him to Washington and I wentFree eBooks at Planet eBook.comout to the country alone. I had a dog, at least I had him for afew days until he ran away, and an old Dodge and a Finnishwoman who made my bed and cooked breakfast and mut-tered Finnish wisdom to herself over the electric stove.It was lonely for a day or so until one morning some man,more recently arrived than I, stopped me on the road.‘How do you get to West Egg village?’ he asked helpless-ly. I told him. And as I walked on I was lonely no longer. Iwas a guide, a pathfinder, an original settler. He had casu-ally conferred on me the freedom of the neighborhood.And so with the sunshine and the great bursts of leavesgrowing on the trees—just as things grow in fast movies—Ihad that familiar conviction that life was beginning overagain with the summer.There was so much to read for one thing and so muchfine health to be pulled down out of the young breath-giv-ing air. I bought a dozen volumes on banking and credit andinvestment securities and they stood on my shelf in red andgold like new money from the mint, promising to unfoldthe shining secrets that only Midas and Morgan and Mae-cenas knew. And I had the high intention of reading manyother books besides. I was rather literary in college—oneyear I wrote a series of very solemn and obvious editorialsfor the ‘Yale News’—and now I was going to bring back allsuch things into my life and become again that most limitedof all specialists, the ‘well-rounded man.’ This isn’t just anepigram—life is much more successfully looked at from asingle window, after all.The Great GatsbyIt was a matter of chance that I should have rented ahouse in one of the strangest communities in North Ameri-ca. It was on that slender riotous island which extends itselfdue east of New York and where there are, among othernatural curiosities, two unusual formations of land. Twentymiles from the city a pair of enormous eggs, identical incontour and separated only by a courtesy bay, jut out intothe most domesticated body of salt water in the WesternHemisphere, the great wet barnyard of Long Island Sound.They are not perfect ovals—like the egg in the Columbusstory they are both crushed flat at the contact end—buttheir physical resemblance must be a source of perpetualconfusion to the gulls that fly overhead. To the wingless amore arresting phenomenon is their dissimilarity in everyparticular except shape and size.I lived at West Egg, the—well, the less fashionable of thetwo, though this is a most superficial tag to express the bi-zarre and not a little sinister contrast between them. Myhouse was at the very tip of the egg, only fifty yards from theSound, and squeezed between two huge places that rentedfor twelve or fifteen thousand a season. The one on my rightwas a colossal affair by any standard—it was a factual imi-tation of some Hotel de Ville in Normandy, with a tower onone side, spanking new under a thin beard of raw ivy, and amarble swimming pool and more than forty acres of lawnand garden. It was Gatsby’s mansion. Or rather, as I didn’tknow Mr. Gatsby it was a mansion inhabited by a gentle-man of that name. My own house was an eye-sore, but itwas a small eye-sore, and it had been overlooked, so I had aFree eBooks at Planet eBook.comview of the water, a partial view of my neighbor’s lawn, andthe consoling proximity of millionaires—all for eighty dol-lars a month.Across the courtesy bay the white palaces of fashionableEast Egg glittered along the water, and the history of thesummer really begins on the evening I drove over there tohave dinner with the Tom Buchanans. Daisy was my secondcousin once removed and I’d known Tom in college. Andjust after the war I spent two days with them in Chicago.Her husband, among various physical accomplishments,had been one of the most powerful ends that ever playedfootball at New Haven—a national figure in a way, one ofthose men who reach such an acute limited excellence attwenty-one that everything afterward savors of anti-cli-max. His family were enormously wealthy—even in collegehis freedom with money was a matter for reproach—butnow he’d left Chicago and come east in a fashion that rathertook your breath away: for instance he’d brought down astring of polo ponies from Lake Forest. It was hard to real-ize that a man in my own generation was wealthy enoughto do that.Why they came east I don’t know. They had spent a yearin France, for no particular reason, and then drifted hereand there unrestfully wherever people played polo and wererich together. This was a permanent move, said Daisy overthe telephone, but I didn’t believe it—I had no sight intoDaisy’s heart but I felt that Tom would drift on forever seek-ing a little wistfully for the dramatic turbulence of someirrecoverable football game.The Great GatsbyAnd so it happened that on a warm windy evening Idrove over to East Egg to see two old friends whom I scarce-ly knew at all. Their house was even more elaborate than Iexpected, a cheerful red and white Georgian Colonial man-sion overlooking the bay. The lawn started at the beach andran toward the front door for a quarter of a mile, jumpingover sun-dials and brick walks and burning gardens—final-ly when it reached the house drifting up the side in brightvines as though from the momentum of its run. The frontwas broken by a line of French windows, glowing now withreflected gold, and wide open to the warm windy afternoon,and Tom Buchanan in riding clothes was standing with hislegs apart on the front porch.He had changed since his New Haven years. Now hewas a sturdy, straw haired man of thirty with a rather hardmouth and a supercilious manner. Two shining, arroganteyes had established dominance over his face and gave himthe appearance of always leaning aggressively forward. Noteven the effeminate swank of his riding clothes could hidethe enormous power of that body—he seemed to fill thoseglistening boots until he strained the top lacing and youcould see a great pack of muscle shifting when his shouldermoved under his thin coat. It was a body capable of enor-mous leverage—a cruel body.His speaking voice, a gruff husky tenor, added to the im-pression of fractiousness he conveyed. There was a touch ofpaternal contempt in it, even toward people he liked—andthere were men at New Haven who had hated his guts.‘Now, don’t think my opinion on these matters is final,’Free eBooks at Planet eBook.comhe seemed to say, ‘just because I’m stronger and more of aman than you are.’ We were in the same Senior Society, andwhile we were never intimate I always had the impressionthat he approved of me and wanted me to like him withsome harsh, defiant wistfulness of his own.We talked for a few minutes on the sunny porch.‘I’ve got a nice place here,’ he said, his eyes flashing aboutrestlessly.Turning me around by one arm he moved a broad flathand along the front vista, including in its sweep a sunkenItalian garden, a half acre of deep pungent roses and a snub-nosed motor boat that bumped the tide off shore.‘It belonged to Demaine the oil man.’ He turned mearound again, politely and abruptly. ‘We’ll go inside.’We walked through a high hallway into a bright rosy-colored space, fragilely bound into the house by Frenchwindows at either end. The windows were ajar and gleamingwhite against the fresh grass outside that seemed to grow alittle way into the house. A breeze blew through the room,blew curtains in at one end and out the other like pale flags,twisting them up toward the frosted wedding cake of theceiling—and then rippled over the wine-colored rug, mak-ing a shadow on it as wind does on the sea.The only completely stationary object in the room was anenormous couch on which two young women were buoyedup as though upon an anchored balloon. They were bothin white and their dresses were rippling and fluttering as ifthey had just been blown back in after a short flight aroundthe house. I must have stood for a few moments listening to10The Great Gatsbythe whip and snap of the curtains and the groan of a pic-ture on the wall. Then there was a boom as Tom Buchananshut the rear windows and the caught wind died out aboutthe room and the curtains and the rugs and the two youngwomen ballooned slowly to the floor.The younger of the two was a stranger to me. She wasextended full length at her end of the divan, completelymotionless and with her chin raised a little as if she werebalancing something on it which was quite likely to fall. Ifshe saw me out of the corner of her eyes she gave no hint ofit—indeed, I was almost surprised into murmuring an apol-ogy for having disturbed her by coming in.The other girl, Daisy, made an attempt to rise—sheleaned slightly forward with a conscientious expression—then she laughed, an absurd, charming little laugh, and Ilaughed too and came forward into the room.‘I’m p-paralyzed with happiness.’She laughed again, as if she said something very witty,and held my hand for a moment, looking up into my face,promising that there was no one in the world she so muchwanted to see. That was a way she had. She hinted in a mur-mur that the surname of the balancing girl was Baker. (I’veheard it said that Daisy’s murmur was only to make peoplelean toward her; an irrelevant criticism that made it no lesscharming.)At any rate Miss Baker’s lips fluttered, she nodded at mealmost imperceptibly and then quickly tipped her head backagain—the object she was balancing had obviously tottereda little and given her something of a fright. Again a sort ofFree eBooks at Planet eBook.com11apology arose to my lips. Almost any exhibition of completeself sufficiency draws a stunned tribute from me.I looked back at my cousin who began to ask me ques-tions in her low, thrilling voice. It was the kind of voice thatthe ear follows up and down as if each speech is an arrange-ment of notes that will never be played again. Her face wassad and lovely with bright things in it, bright eyes and abright passionate mouth—but there was an excitement inher voice that men who had cared for her found difficult toforget: a singing compulsion, a whispered ‘Listen,’ a prom-ise that she had done gay, exciting things just a while sinceand that there were gay, exciting things hovering in the nexthour.I told her how I had stopped off in Chicago for a day onmy way east and how a dozen people had sent their lovethrough me.‘Do they miss me?’ she cried ecstatically.‘The whole town is desolate. All the cars have the left rearwheel painted black as a mourning wreath and there’s a per-sistent wail all night along the North Shore.’‘How gorgeous! Let’s go back, Tom. Tomorrow!’ Thenshe added irrelevantly, ‘You ought to see the baby.’‘I’d like to.’‘She’s asleep. She’s two years old. Haven’t you ever seenher?’‘Never.’‘Well, you ought to see her. She’s——‘Tom Buchanan who had been hovering restlessly aboutthe room stopped and rested his hand on my shoulder.1The Great Gatsby‘What you doing, Nick?’‘I’m a bond man.’‘Who with?’I told him.‘Never heard of them,’ he remarked decisively.This annoyed me.‘You will,’ I answered shortly. ‘You will if you stay in theEast.’‘Oh, I’ll stay in the East, don’t you worry,’ he said, glanc-ing at Daisy and then back at me, as if he were alert forsomething more. ‘I’d be a God Damned fool to live any-where else.’At this point Miss Baker said ‘Absolutely!’ with suchsuddenness that I started—it was the first word she utteredsince I came into the room. Evidently it surprised her asmuch as it did me, for she yawned and with a series of rapid,deft movements stood up into the room.‘I’m stiff,’ she complained, ‘I’ve been lying on that sofafor as long as I can remember.’‘Don’t look at me,’ Daisy retorted. ‘I’ve been trying to getyou to New York all afternoon.’‘No, thanks,’ said Miss Baker to the four cocktails just infrom the pantry, ‘I’m absolutely in training.’Her host looked at her incredulously.‘You are!’ He took down his drink as if it were a drop inthe bottom of a glass. ‘How you ever get anything done isbeyond me.’I looked at Miss Baker wondering what it was she ‘gotdone.’ I enjoyed looking at her. She was a slender, small-Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com1breasted girl, with an erect carriage which she accentuatedby throwing her body backward at the shoulders like a youngcadet. Her grey sun-strained eyes looked back at me withpolite reciprocal curiosity out of a wan, charming discon-tented face. It occurred to me now that I had seen her, or apicture of her, somewhere before.‘You live in West Egg,’ she remarked contemptuously. ‘Iknow somebody there.’‘I don’t know a single——‘‘You must know Gatsby.’‘Gatsby?’ demanded Daisy. ‘What Gatsby?’Before I could reply that he was my neighbor dinnerwas announced; wedging his tense arm imperatively un-der mine Tom Buchanan compelled me from the room asthough he were moving a checker to another square.Slenderly, languidly, their hands set lightly on their hipsthe two young women preceded us out onto a rosy-coloredporch open toward the sunset where four candles flickeredon the table in the diminished wind.‘Why CANDLES?’ objected Daisy, frowning. Shesnapped them out with her fingers. ‘In two weeks it’ll be thelongest day in the year.’ She looked at us all radiantly. ‘Doyou always watch for the longest day of the year and thenmiss it? I always watch for the longest day in the year andthen miss it.’‘We ought to plan something,’ yawned Miss Baker, sit-ting down at the table as if she were getting into bed.‘All right,’ said Daisy. ‘What’ll we plan?’ She turned tome helplessly. ‘What do people plan?’1The Great GatsbyBefore I could answer her eyes fastened with an awed ex-pression on her little finger.‘Look!’ she complained. ‘I hurt it.’We all looked—the knuckle was black and blue.‘You did it, Tom,’ she said accusingly. ‘I know you didn’tmean to but you DID do it. That’s what I get for marryinga brute of a man, a great big hulking physical specimen ofa——‘‘I hate that word hulking,’ objected Tom crossly, ‘even inkidding.’‘Hulking,’ insisted Daisy.Sometimes she and Miss Baker talked at once, unobtru-sively and with a bantering inconsequence that was neverquite chatter, that was as cool as their white dresses andtheir impersonal eyes in the absence of all desire. They werehere—and they accepted Tom and me, making only a po-lite pleasant effort to entertain or to be entertained. Theyknew that presently dinner would be over and a little laterthe evening too would be over and casually put away. It wassharply different from the West where an evening was hur-ried from phase to phase toward its close in a continuallydisappointed anticipation or else in sheer nervous dread ofthe moment itself.‘You make me feel uncivilized, Daisy,’ I confessed on mysecond glass of corky but rather impressive claret. ‘Can’tyou talk about crops or something?’I meant nothing in particular by this remark but it wastaken up in an unexpected way.‘Civilization’s going to pieces,’ broke out Tom violently.Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com1‘I’ve gotten to be a terrible pessimist about things. Have youread ‘The Rise of the Coloured Empires’ by this man God-dard?’‘Why, no,’ I answered, rather surprised by his tone.‘Well, it’s a fine book, and everybody ought to read it. Theidea is if we don’t look out the white race will be—will be ut-terly submerged. It’s all scientific stuff; it’s been proved.’‘Tom’s getting very profound,’ said Daisy with an expres-sion of unthoughtful sadness. ‘He reads deep books withlong words in them. What was that word we——‘‘Well, these books are all scientific,’ insisted Tom, glanc-ing at her impatiently. ‘This fellow has worked out the wholething. It’s up to us who are the dominant race to watch outor these other races will have control of things.’‘We’ve got to beat them down,’ whispered Daisy, wink-ing ferociously toward the fervent sun.‘You ought to live in California—’ began Miss Baker butTom interrupted her by shifting heavily in his chair.‘This idea is that we’re Nordics. I am, and you are andyou are and——’ After an infinitesimal hesitation he in-cluded Daisy with a slight nod and she winked at me again.‘—and we’ve produced all the things that go to make civili-zation—oh, science and art and all that. Do you see?’There was something pathetic in his concentration as ifhis complacency, more acute than of old, was not enough tohim any more. When, almost immediately, the telephonerang inside and the butler left the porch Daisy seized uponthe momentary interruption and leaned toward me.‘I’ll tell you a family secret,’ she whispered enthusiasti-1The Great Gatsbycally. ‘It’s about the butler’s nose. Do you want to hear aboutthe butler’s nose?’‘That’s why I came over tonight.’‘Well, he wasn’t always a butler; he used to be the sil-ver polisher for some people in New York that had a silverservice for two hundred people. He had to polish it frommorning till night until finally it began to affect his nose——‘‘Things went from bad to worse,’ suggested Miss Baker.‘Yes. Things went from bad to worse until finally he hadto give up his position.’For a moment the last sunshine fell with romantic affec-tion upon her glowing face; her voice compelled me forwardbreathlessly as I listened—then the glow faded, each lightdeserting her with lingering regret like children leaving apleasant street at dusk.The butler came back and murmured something close toTom’s ear whereupon Tom frowned, pushed back his chairand without a word went inside. As if his absence quickenedsomething within her Daisy leaned forward again, her voiceglowing and singing.‘I love to see you at my table, Nick. You remind me of a—of a rose, an absolute rose. Doesn’t he?’ She turned to MissBaker for confirmation. ‘An absolute rose?’This was untrue. I am not even faintly like a rose. Shewas only extemporizing but a stirring warmth flowed fromher as if her heart was trying to come out to you concealedin one of those breathless, thrilling words. Then suddenlyshe threw her napkin on the table and excused herself andFree eBooks at Planet eBook.com1went into the house.Miss Baker and I exchanged a short glance conscious-ly devoid of meaning. I was about to speak when she satup alertly and said ‘Sh!’ in a warning voice. A subdued im-passioned murmur was audible in the room beyond andMiss Baker leaned forward, unashamed, trying to hear. Themurmur trembled on the verge of coherence, sank down,mounted excitedly, and then ceased altogether.‘This Mr. Gatsby you spoke of is my neighbor——’ Isaid.‘Don’t talk. I want to hear what happens.’‘Is something happening?’ I inquired innocently.‘You mean to say you don’t know?’ said Miss Baker, hon-estly surprised. ‘I thought everybody knew.’‘I don’t.’‘Why——’ she said hesitantly, ‘Tom’s got some womanin New York.’‘Got some woman?’ I repeated blankly.Miss Baker nodded.‘She might have the decency not to telephone him at din-ner-time. Don’t you think?’Almost before I had grasped her meaning there was theflutter of a dress and the crunch of leather boots and Tomand Daisy were back at the table.‘It couldn’t be helped!’ cried Daisy with tense gayety.She sat down, glanced searchingly at Miss Baker andthen at me and continued: ‘I looked outdoors for a minuteand it’s very romantic outdoors. There’s a bird on the lawnthat I think must be a nightingale come over on the Cunard1The Great Gatsbyor White Star Line. He’s singing away——’ her voice sang‘——It’s romantic, isn’t it, Tom?’‘Very romantic,’ he said, and then miserably to me: ‘Ifit’s light enough after dinner I want to take you down to thestables.’The telephone rang inside, startlingly, and as Daisy shookher head decisively at Tom the subject of the stables, in factall subjects, vanished into air. Among the broken fragmentsof the last five minutes at table I remember the candles beinglit again, pointlessly, and I was conscious of wanting to looksquarely at every one and yet to avoid all eyes. I couldn’tguess what Daisy and Tom were thinking but I doubt if evenMiss Baker who seemed to have mastered a certain hardyskepticism was able utterly to put this fifth guest’s shrill me-tallic urgency out of mind. To a certain temperament thesituation might have seemed intriguing—my own instinctwas to telephone immediately for the police.The horses, needless to say, were not mentioned again.Tom and Miss Baker, with several feet of twilight betweenthem strolled back into the library, as if to a vigil beside aperfectly tangible body, while trying to look pleasantly in-terested and a little deaf I followed Daisy around a chainof connecting verandas to the porch in front. In its deepgloom we sat down side by side on a wicker settee.Daisy took her face in her hands, as if feeling its love-ly shape, and her eyes moved gradually out into the velvetdusk. I saw that turbulent emotions possessed her, so I askedwhat I thought would be some sedative questions about herlittle girl.Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com1‘We don’t know each other very well, Nick,’ she saidsuddenly. ‘Even if we are cousins. You didn’t come to mywedding.’‘I wasn’t back from the war.’‘That’s true.’ She hesitated. ‘Well, I’ve had a very badtime, Nick, and I’m pretty cynical about everything.’Evidently she had reason to be. I waited but she didn’t sayany more, and after a moment I returned rather feebly to thesubject of her daughter.‘I suppose she talks, and—eats, and everything.’‘Oh, yes.’ She looked at me absently. ‘Listen, Nick; let metell you what I said when she was born. Would you like tohear?’‘Very much.’‘It’ll show you how I’ve gotten to feel about—things.Well, she was less than an hour old and Tom was God knowswhere. I woke up out of the ether with an utterly abandonedfeeling and asked the nurse right away if it was a boy or agirl. She told me it was a girl, and so I turned my head awayand wept. ‘All right,’ I said, ‘I’m glad it’s a girl. And I hopeshe’ll be a fool—that’s the best thing a girl can be in thisworld, a beautiful little fool.’‘You see I think everything’s terrible anyhow,’ she wenton in a convinced way. ‘Everybody thinks so—the most ad-vanced people. And I KNOW. I’ve been everywhere and seeneverything and done everything.’ Her eyes flashed aroundher in a defiant way, rather like Tom’s, and she laughed withthrilling scorn. ‘Sophisticated—God, I’m sophisticated!’The instant her voice broke off, ceasing to compel my0The Great Gatsbyattention, my belief, I felt the basic insincerity of what shehad said. It made me uneasy, as though the whole eveninghad been a trick of some sort to exact a contributory emo-tion from me. I waited, and sure enough, in a moment shelooked at me with an absolute smirk on her lovely face as ifshe had asserted her membership in a rather distinguishedsecret society to which she and Tom belonged.Inside, the crimson room bloomed with light. Tom andMiss Baker sat at either end of the long couch and she readaloud to him from the ‘Saturday Evening Post’—the words,murmurous and uninflected, running together in a sooth-ing tune. The lamp-light, bright on his boots and dull onthe autumn-leaf yellow of her hair, glinted along the paperas she turned a page with a flutter of slender muscles in herarms.When we came in she held us silent for a moment witha lifted hand.‘To be continued,’ she said, tossing the magazine on thetable, ‘in our very next issue.’Her body asserted itself with a restless movement of herknee, and she stood up.‘Ten o’clock,’ she remarked, apparently finding the timeon the ceiling. ‘Time for this good girl to go to bed.’‘Jordan’s going to play in the tournament tomorrow,’ ex-plained Daisy, ‘over at Westchester.’‘Oh,—you’re JORdan Baker.’I knew now why her face was familiar—its pleasing con-temptuous expression had looked out at me from manyrotogravure pictures of the sporting life at Asheville andFree eBooks at Planet eBook.com1Hot Springs and Palm Beach. I had heard some story of hertoo, a critical, unpleasant story, but what it was I had forgot-ten long ago.‘Good night,’ she said softly. ‘Wake me at eight, won’tyou.’‘If you’ll get up.’‘I will. Good night, Mr. Carraway. See you anon.’‘Of course you will,’ confirmed Daisy. ‘In fact I thinkI’ll arrange a marriage. Come over often, Nick, and I’ll sortof—oh—fling you together. You know—lock you up acci-dentally in linen closets and push you out to sea in a boat,and all that sort of thing——‘‘Good night,’ called Miss Baker from the stairs. ‘I haven’theard a word.’‘She’s a nice girl,’ said Tom after a moment. ‘They oughtn’tto let her run around the country this way.’‘Who oughtn’t to?’ inquired Daisy coldly.‘Her family.’‘Her family is one aunt about a thousand years old. Be-sides, Nick’s going to look after her, aren’t you, Nick? She’sgoing to spend lots of week-ends out here this summer. Ithink the home influence will be very good for her.’Daisy and Tom looked at each other for a moment in si-lence.‘Is she from New York?’ I asked quickly.‘From Louisville. Our white girlhood was passed togeth-er there. Our beautiful white——‘‘Did you give Nick a little heart to heart talk on the ve-randa?’ demanded Tom suddenly.The Great Gatsby‘Did I?’ She looked at me. ‘I can’t seem to remember, but Ithink we talked about the Nordic race. Yes, I’m sure we did.It sort of crept up on us and first thing you know——‘‘Don’t believe everything you hear, Nick,’ he advisedme.I said lightly that I had heard nothing at all, and a fewminutes later I got up to go home. They came to the doorwith me and stood side by side in a cheerful square of light.As I started my motor Daisy peremptorily called ‘Wait!‘I forgot to ask you something, and it’s important. Weheard you were engaged to a girl out West.’‘That’s right,’ corroborated Tom kindly. ‘We heard thatyou were engaged.’‘It’s libel. I’m too poor.’‘But we heard it,’ insisted Daisy, surprising me by open-ing up again in a flower-like way. ‘We heard it from threepeople so it must be true.’Of course I knew what they were referring to, but I wasn’teven vaguely engaged. The fact that gossip had publishedthe banns was one of the reasons I had come east. You can’tstop going with an old friend on account of rumors and onthe other hand I had no intention of being rumored intomarriage.Their interest rather touched me and made them lessremotely rich—nevertheless, I was confused and a little dis-gusted as I drove away. It seemed to me that the thing forDaisy to do was to rush out of the house, child in arms—butapparently there were no such intentions in her head. As forTom, the fact that he ‘had some woman in New York’ wasFree eBooks at Planet eBook.comreally less surprising than that he had been depressed by abook. Something was making him nibble at the edge of staleideas as if his sturdy physical egotism no longer nourishedhis peremptory heart.Already it was deep summer on roadhouse roofs andin front of wayside garages, where new red gas-pumps satout in pools of light, and when I reached my estate at WestEgg I ran the car under its shed and sat for a while on anabandoned grass roller in the yard. The wind had blown off,leaving a loud bright night with wings beating in the treesand a persistent organ sound as the full bellows of the earthblew the frogs full of life. The silhouette of a moving cat wa-vered across the moonlight and turning my head to watchit I saw that I was not alone—fifty feet away a figure hademerged from the shadow of my neighbor’s mansion andwas standing with his hands in his pockets regarding thesilver pepper of the stars. Something in his leisurely move-ments and the secure position of his feet upon the lawnsuggested that it was Mr. Gatsby himself, come out to deter-mine what share was his of our local heavens.I decided to call to him. Miss Baker had mentioned himat dinner, and that would do for an introduction. But Ididn’t call to him for he gave a sudden intimation that hewas content to be alone—he stretched out his arms towardthe dark water in a curious way, and far as I was from him Icould have sworn he was trembling. Involuntarily I glancedseaward—and distinguished nothing except a single greenlight, minute and far away, that might have been the end ofa dock. When I looked once more for Gatsby he had van-The Great Gatsbyished, and I was alone again in the unquiet darkness.Free eBooks at Planet eBook.comChapter 2About half way between West Egg and New York themotor-road hastily joins the railroad and runs besideit for a quarter of a mile, so as to shrink away from a certaindesolate area of land. This is a valley of ashes—a fantasticfarm where ashes grow like wheat into ridges and hills andgrotesque gardens where ashes take the forms of houses andchimneys and rising smoke and finally, with a transcen-dent effort, of men who move dimly and already crumblingthrough the powdery air. Occasionally a line of grey carscrawls along an invisible track, gives out a ghastly creak andcomes to rest, and immediately the ash-grey men swarm upwith leaden spades and stir up an impenetrable cloud whichscreens their obscure operations from your sight.But above the grey land and the spasms of bleak dustwhich drift endlessly over it, you perceive, after a moment,the eyes of Doctor T. J. Eckleburg. The eyes of Doctor T. J.Eckleburg are blue and gigantic—their retinas are one yardhigh. They look out of no face but, instead, from a pair ofenormous yellow spectacles which pass over a nonexistentnose. Evidently some wild wag of an oculist set them thereto fatten his practice in the borough of Queens, and thensank down himself into eternal blindness or forgot themand moved away. But his eyes, dimmed a little by manypaintless days under sun and rain, brood on over the sol-The Great Gatsbyemn dumping ground.The valley of ashes is bounded on one side by a small foulriver, and when the drawbridge is up to let barges through,the passengers on waiting trains can stare at the dismalscene for as long as half an hour. There is always a halt thereof at least a minute and it was because of this that I first metTom Buchanan’s mistress.The fact that he had one was insisted upon wherever hewas known. His acquaintances resented the fact that heturned up in popular restaurants with her and, leaving herat a table, sauntered about, chatting with whomsoever heknew. Though I was curious to see her I had no desire tomeet her—but I did. I went up to New York with Tom on thetrain one afternoon and when we stopped by the ashheapshe jumped to his feet and taking hold of my elbow literallyforced me from the car.‘We’re getting off!’ he insisted. ‘I want you to meet mygirl.’I think he’d tanked up a good deal at luncheon and hisdetermination to have my company bordered on violence.The supercilious assumption was that on Sunday afternoonI had nothing better to do.I followed him over a low white-washed railroad fenceand we walked back a hundred yards along the road un-der Doctor Eckleburg’s persistent stare. The only buildingin sight was a small block of yellow brick sitting on the edgeof the waste land, a sort of compact Main Street ministeringto it and contiguous to absolutely nothing. One of the threeshops it contained was for rent and another was an all-nightFree eBooks at Planet eBook.comrestaurant approached by a trail of ashes; the third was agarage—Repairs. GEORGE B. WILSON. Cars Bought andSold—and I followed Tom inside.The interior was unprosperous and bare; the only car vis-ible was the dust-covered wreck of a Ford which crouchedin a dim corner. It had occurred to me that this shadow ofa garage must be a blind and that sumptuous and romanticapartments were concealed overhead when the proprietorhimself appeared in the door of an office, wiping his handson a piece of waste. He was a blonde, spiritless man, anae-mic, and faintly handsome. When he saw us a damp gleamof hope sprang into his light blue eyes.‘Hello, Wilson, old man,’ said Tom, slapping him joviallyon the shoulder. ‘How’s business?’‘I can’t complain,’ answered Wilson unconvincingly.‘When are you going to sell me that car?’‘Next week; I’ve got my man working on it now.’‘Works pretty slow, don’t he?’‘No, he doesn’t,’ said Tom coldly. ‘And if you feel that wayabout it, maybe I’d better sell it somewhere else after all.’‘I don’t mean that,’ explained Wilson quickly. ‘I justmeant——‘His voice faded off and Tom glanced impatiently aroundthe garage. Then I heard footsteps on a stairs and in a mo-ment the thickish figure of a woman blocked out the lightfrom the office door. She was in the middle thirties, andfaintly stout, but she carried her surplus flesh sensuously assome women can. Her face, above a spotted dress of darkblue crepe-de-chine, contained no facet or gleam of beautyThe Great Gatsbybut there was an immediately perceptible vitality about heras if the nerves of her body were continually smouldering.She smiled slowly and walking through her husband as if hewere a ghost shook hands with Tom, looking him flush inthe eye. Then she wet her lips and without turning aroundspoke to her husband in a soft, coarse voice:‘Get some chairs, why don’t you, so somebody can sitdown.’‘Oh, sure,’ agreed Wilson hurriedly and went toward thelittle office, mingling immediately with the cement color ofthe walls. A white ashen dust veiled his dark suit and hispale hair as it veiled everything in the vicinity—except hiswife, who moved close to Tom.‘I want to see you,’ said Tom intently. ‘Get on the nexttrain.’‘All right.’‘I’ll meet you by the news-stand on the lower level.’She nodded and moved away from him just as GeorgeWilson emerged with two chairs from his office door.We waited for her down the road and out of sight. It wasa few days before the Fourth of July, and a grey, scrawnyItalian child was setting torpedoes in a row along the rail-road track.‘Terrible place, isn’t it,’ said Tom, exchanging a frownwith Doctor Eckleburg.‘Awful.’‘It does her good to get away.’‘Doesn’t her husband object?’‘Wilson? He thinks she goes to see her sister in NewFree eBooks at Planet eBook.comYork. He’s so dumb he doesn’t know he’s alive.’So Tom Buchanan and his girl and I went up togeth-er to New York—or not quite together, for Mrs. Wilsonsat discreetly in another car. Tom deferred that much tothe sensibilities of those East Eggers who might be on thetrain.She had changed her dress to a brown figured mus-lin which stretched tight over her rather wide hips as Tomhelped her to the platform in New York. At the news-standshe bought a copy of ‘Town Tattle’ and a moving-picturemagazine and, in the station drug store, some cold creamand a small flask of perfume. Upstairs, in the solemn echo-ing drive she let four taxi cabs drive away before she selecteda new one, lavender-colored with grey upholstery, and inthis we slid out from the mass of the station into the glow-ing sunshine. But immediately she turned sharply from thewindow and leaning forward tapped on the front glass.‘I want to get one of those dogs,’ she said earnestly. ‘Iwant to get one for the apartment. They’re nice to have—adog.’We backed up to a grey old man who bore an absurd re-semblance to John D. Rockefeller. In a basket, swung fromhis neck, cowered a dozen very recent puppies of an inde-terminate breed.‘What kind are they?’ asked Mrs. Wilson eagerly as hecame to the taxi-window.‘All kinds. What kind do you want, lady?’‘I’d like to get one of those police dogs; I don’t supposeyou got that kind?’0The Great GatsbyThe man peered doubtfully into the basket, plunged inhis hand and drew one up, wriggling, by the back of theneck.‘That’s no police dog,’ said Tom.‘No, it’s not exactly a polICE dog,’ said the man withdisappointment in his voice. ‘It’s more of an airedale.’ Hepassed his hand over the brown wash-rag of a back. ‘Lookat that coat. Some coat. That’s a dog that’ll never bother youwith catching cold.’‘I think it’s cute,’ said Mrs. Wilson enthusiastically. ‘Howmuch is it?’‘That dog?’ He looked at it admiringly. ‘That dog will costyou ten dollars.’The airedale—undoubtedly there was an airedale con-cerned in it somewhere though its feet were startlinglywhite—changed hands and settled down into Mrs. Wilson’slap, where she fondled the weather-proof coat with rapture.‘Is it a boy or a girl?’ she asked delicately.‘That dog? That dog’s a boy.’‘It’s a bitch,’ said Tom decisively. ‘Here’s your money. Goand buy ten more dogs with it.’We drove over to Fifth Avenue, so warm and soft, almostpastoral, on the summer Sunday afternoon that I wouldn’thave been surprised to see a great flock of white sheep turnthe corner.‘Hold on,’ I said, ‘I have to leave you here.’‘No, you don’t,’ interposed Tom quickly. ‘Myrtle’ll behurt if you don’t come up to the apartment. Won’t you,Myrtle?’Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com1‘Come on,’ she urged. ‘I’ll telephone my sister Cathe-rine. She’s said to be very beautiful by people who oughtto know.’‘Well, I’d like to, but——‘We went on, cutting back again over the Park toward theWest Hundreds. At 158th Street the cab stopped at one slicein a long white cake of apartment houses. Throwing a regalhomecoming glance around the neighborhood, Mrs. Wil-son gathered up her dog and her other purchases and wenthaughtily in.‘I’m going to have the McKees come up,’ she announcedas we rose in the elevator. ‘And of course I got to call up mysister, too.’The apartment was on the top floor—a small livingroom, a small dining room, a small bedroom and a bath.The living room was crowded to the doors with a set of tap-estried furniture entirely too large for it so that to moveabout was to stumble continually over scenes of ladiesswinging in the gardens of Versailles. The only picture wasan over-enlarged photograph, apparently a hen sitting ona blurred rock. Looked at from a distance however the henresolved itself into a bonnet and the countenance of a stoutold lady beamed down into the room. Several old copies of‘Town Tattle ‘lay on the table together with a copy of ‘SimonCalled Peter’ and some of the small scandal magazines ofBroadway. Mrs. Wilson was first concerned with the dog. Areluctant elevator boy went for a box full of straw and somemilk to which he added on his own initiative a tin of largehard dog biscuits—one of which decomposed apatheticallyThe Great Gatsbyin the saucer of milk all afternoon. Meanwhile Tom broughtout a bottle of whiskey from a locked bureau door.I have been drunk just twice in my life and the secondtime was that afternoon so everything that happened has adim hazy cast over it although until after eight o’clock theapartment was full of cheerful sun. Sitting on Tom’s lapMrs. Wilson called up several people on the telephone; thenthere were no cigarettes and I went out to buy some at thedrug store on the corner. When I came back they had disap-peared so I sat down discreetly in the living room and reada chapter of ‘Simon Called Peter’—either it was terrible stuffor the whiskey distorted things because it didn’t make anysense to me.Just as Tom and Myrtle—after the first drink Mrs. Wil-son and I called each other by our first names—reappeared,company commenced to arrive at the apartment door.The sister, Catherine, was a slender, worldly girl of aboutthirty with a solid sticky bob of red hair and a complexionpowdered milky white. Her eyebrows had been plucked andthen drawn on again at a more rakish angle but the effortsof nature toward the restoration of the old alignment gavea blurred air to her face. When she moved about there wasan incessant clicking as innumerable pottery bracelets jin-gled up and down upon her arms. She came in with such aproprietary haste and looked around so possessively at thefurniture that I wondered if she lived here. But when I askedher she laughed immoderately, repeated my question aloudand told me she lived with a girl friend at a hotel.Mr. McKee was a pale feminine man from the flat below.Free eBooks at Planet eBook.comHe had just shaved for there was a white spot of lather onhis cheekbone and he was most respectful in his greeting toeveryone in the room. He informed me that he was in the‘artistic game’ and I gathered later that he was a photogra-pher and had made the dim enlargement of Mrs. Wilson’smother which hovered like an ectoplasm on the wall. Hiswife was shrill, languid, handsome and horrible. She toldme with pride that her husband had photographed her ahundred and twenty-seven times since they had been mar-ried.Mrs. Wilson had changed her costume some time be-fore and was now attired in an elaborate afternoon dress ofcream colored chiffon, which gave out a continual rustle asshe swept about the room. With the influence of the dressher personality had also undergone a change. The intensevitality that had been so remarkable in the garage was con-verted into impressive hauteur. Her laughter, her gestures,her assertions became more violently affected moment bymoment and as she expanded the room grew smaller aroundher until she seemed to be revolving on a noisy, creakingpivot through the smoky air.‘My dear,’ she told her sister in a high mincing shout,‘most of these fellas will cheat you every time. All they thinkof is money. I had a woman up here last week to look at myfeet and when she gave me the bill you’d of thought she hadmy appendicitus out.’‘What was the name of the woman?’ asked Mrs. McKee.‘Mrs. Eberhardt. She goes around looking at people’s feetin their own homes.’The Great Gatsby‘I like your dress,’ remarked Mrs. McKee, ‘I think it’sadorable.’Mrs. Wilson rejected the compliment by raising her eye-brow in disdain.‘It’s just a crazy old thing,’ she said. ‘I just slip it on some-times when I don’t care what I look like.’‘But it looks wonderful on you, if you know what I mean,’pursued Mrs. McKee. ‘If Chester could only get you in thatpose I think he could make something of it.’We all looked in silence at Mrs. Wilson who removed astrand of hair from over her eyes and looked back at us witha brilliant smile. Mr. McKee regarded her intently with hishead on one side and then moved his hand back and forthslowly in front of his face.‘I should change the light,’ he said after a moment. ‘I’dlike to bring out the modelling of the features. And I’d tryto get hold of all the back hair.’‘I wouldn’t think of changing the light,’ cried Mrs. McK-ee. ‘I think it’s——‘Her husband said ‘SH!’ and we all looked at the subjectagain whereupon Tom Buchanan yawned audibly and gotto his feet.‘You McKees have something to drink,’ he said. ‘Getsome more ice and mineral water, Myrtle, before everybodygoes to sleep.’‘I told that boy about the ice.’ Myrtle raised her eyebrowsin despair at the shiftlessness of the lower orders. ‘Thesepeople! You have to keep after them all the time.’She looked at me and laughed pointlessly. Then sheFree eBooks at Planet eBook.comflounced over to the dog, kissed it with ecstasy and sweptinto the kitchen, implying that a dozen chefs awaited herorders there.‘I’ve done some nice things out on Long Island,’ assertedMr. McKee.Tom looked at him blankly.‘Two of them we have framed downstairs.’‘Two what?’ demanded Tom.‘Two studies. One of them I call ‘Montauk Point—theGulls,’ and the other I call ‘Montauk Point—the Sea.’ ‘The sister Catherine sat down beside me on the couch.‘Do you live down on Long Island, too?’ she inquired.‘I live at West Egg.’‘Really? I was down there at a party about a month ago.At a man named Gatsby’s. Do you know him?’‘I live next door to him.’‘Well, they say he’s a nephew or a cousin of Kaiser Wil-helm’s. That’s where all his money comes from.’‘Really?’She nodded.‘I’m scared of him. I’d hate to have him get anything onme.’This absorbing information about my neighbor was in-terrupted by Mrs. McKee’s pointing suddenly at Catherine:‘Chester, I think you could do something with HER,’ shebroke out, but Mr. McKee only nodded in a bored way andturned his attention to Tom.‘I’d like to do more work on Long Island if I could get theentry. All I ask is that they should give me a start.’The Great Gatsby‘Ask Myrtle,’ said Tom, breaking into a short shout oflaughter as Mrs. Wilson entered with a tray. ‘She’ll give youa letter of introduction, won’t you, Myrtle?’‘Do what?’ she asked, startled.‘You’ll give McKee a letter of introduction to your hus-band, so he can do some studies of him.’ His lips movedsilently for a moment as he invented. ‘ ‘George B. Wilson atthe Gasoline Pump,’ or something like that.’Catherine leaned close to me and whispered in my ear:‘Neither of them can stand the person they’re married to.’‘Can’t they?’‘Can’t STAND them.’ She looked at Myrtle and then atTom. ‘What I say is, why go on living with them if they can’tstand them? If I was them I’d get a divorce and get marriedto each other right away.’‘Doesn’t she like Wilson either?’The answer to this was unexpected. It came from Myrtlewho had overheard the question and it was violent and ob-scene.‘You see?’ cried Catherine triumphantly. She lowered hervoice again. ‘It’s really his wife that’s keeping them apart.She’s a Catholic and they don’t believe in divorce.’Daisy was not a Catholic and I was a little shocked at theelaborateness of the lie.‘When they do get married,’ continued Catherine,‘they’re going west to live for a while until it blows over.’‘It’d be more discreet to go to Europe.’‘Oh, do you like Europe?’ she exclaimed surprisingly. ‘Ijust got back from Monte Carlo.’Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com‘Really.’‘Just last year. I went over there with another girl.’‘Stay long?’‘No, we just went to Monte Carlo and back. We wentby way of Marseilles. We had over twelve hundred dollarswhen we started but we got gypped out of it all in two daysin the private rooms. We had an awful time getting back, Ican tell you. God, how I hated that town!’The late afternoon sky bloomed in the window for a mo-ment like the blue honey of the Mediterranean—then theshrill voice of Mrs. McKee called me back into the room.‘I almost made a mistake, too,’ she declared vigorously. ‘Ialmost married a little kyke who’d been after me for years.I knew he was below me. Everybody kept saying to me: ‘Lu-cille, that man’s way below you!’ But if I hadn’t met Chester,he’d of got me sure.’‘Yes, but listen,’ said Myrtle Wilson, nodding her headup and down, ‘at least you didn’t marry him.’‘I know I didn’t.’‘Well, I married him,’ said Myrtle, ambiguously. ‘Andthat’s the difference between your case and mine.’‘Why did you, Myrtle?’ demanded Catherine. ‘Nobodyforced you to.’Myrtle considered.‘I married him because I thought he was a gentleman,’she said finally. ‘I thought he knew something about breed-ing, but he wasn’t fit to lick my shoe.’‘You were crazy about him for a while,’ said Catherine.‘Crazy about him!’ cried Myrtle incredulously. ‘Who saidThe Great GatsbyI was crazy about him? I never was any more crazy abouthim than I was about that man there.’She pointed suddenly at me, and every one looked atme accusingly. I tried to show by my expression that I hadplayed no part in her past.‘The only CRAZY I was was when I married him. I knewright away I made a mistake. He borrowed somebody’s bestsuit to get married in and never even told me about it, andthe man came after it one day when he was out. She lookedaround to see who was listening: ‘ ‘Oh, is that your suit?’ Isaid. ‘This is the first I ever heard about it.’ But I gave it tohim and then I lay down and cried to beat the band all af-ternoon.’‘She really ought to get away from him,’ resumed Cath-erine to me. ‘They’ve been living over that garage for elevenyears. And Tom’s the first sweetie she ever had.’The bottle of whiskey—a second one—was now in con-stant demand by all present, excepting Catherine who ‘feltjust as good on nothing at all.’ Tom rang for the janitorand sent him for some celebrated sandwiches, which werea complete supper in themselves. I wanted to get out andwalk eastward toward the park through the soft twilight buteach time I tried to go I became entangled in some wild stri-dent argument which pulled me back, as if with ropes, intomy chair. Yet high over the city our line of yellow windowsmust have contributed their share of human secrecy to thecasual watcher in the darkening streets, and I was him too,looking up and wondering. I was within and without, si-multaneously enchanted and repelled by the inexhaustibleFree eBooks at Planet eBook.comvariety of life.Myrtle pulled her chair close to mine, and suddenly herwarm breath poured over me the story of her first meetingwith Tom.‘It was on the two little seats facing each other that arealways the last ones left on the train. I was going up to NewYork to see my sister and spend the night. He had on a dresssuit and patent leather shoes and I couldn’t keep my eyes offhim but every time he looked at me I had to pretend to belooking at the advertisement over his head. When we cameinto the station he was next to me and his white shirt-frontpressed against my arm—and so I told him I’d have to calla policeman, but he knew I lied. I was so excited that whenI got into a taxi with him I didn’t hardly know I wasn’t get-ting into a subway train. All I kept thinking about, over andover, was ‘You can’t live forever, you can’t live forever.’ ‘She turned to Mrs. McKee and the room rang full of herartificial laughter.‘My dear,’ she cried, ‘I’m going to give you this dress assoon as I’m through with it. I’ve got to get another one to-morrow. I’m going to make a list of all the things I’ve got toget. A massage and a wave and a collar for the dog and oneof those cute little ash-trays where you touch a spring, anda wreath with a black silk bow for mother’s grave that’ll lastall summer. I got to write down a list so I won’t forget all thethings I got to do.’It was nine o’clock—almost immediately afterward Ilooked at my watch and found it was ten. Mr. McKee wasasleep on a chair with his fists clenched in his lap, like a0The Great Gatsbyphotograph of a man of action. Taking out my handkerchiefI wiped from his cheek the remains of the spot of dried lath-er that had worried me all the afternoon.The little dog was sitting on the table looking with blindeyes through the smoke and from time to time groaningfaintly. People disappeared, reappeared, made plans to gosomewhere, and then lost each other, searched for eachother, found each other a few feet away. Some time towardmidnight Tom Buchanan and Mrs. Wilson stood face toface discussing in impassioned voices whether Mrs. Wilsonhad any right to mention Daisy’s name.‘Daisy! Daisy! Daisy!’ shouted Mrs. Wilson. ‘I’ll say itwhenever I want to! Daisy! Dai——‘Making a short deft movement Tom Buchanan broke hernose with his open hand.Then there were bloody towels upon the bathroom floor,and women’s voices scolding, and high over the confusiona long broken wail of pain. Mr. McKee awoke from his dozeand started in a daze toward the door. When he had gonehalf way he turned around and stared at the scene—his wifeand Catherine scolding and consoling as they stumbledhere and there among the crowded furniture with articlesof aid, and the despairing figure on the couch bleeding flu-ently and trying to spread a copy of ‘Town Tattle’ over thetapestry scenes of Versailles. Then Mr. McKee turned andcontinued on out the door. Taking my hat from the chan-delier I followed.‘Come to lunch some day,’ he suggested, as we groaneddown in the elevator.Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com1‘Where?’‘Anywhere.’‘Keep your hands off the lever,’ snapped the elevatorboy.‘I beg your pardon,’ said Mr. McKee with dignity, ‘I didn’tknow I was touching it.’‘All right,’ I agreed, ‘I’ll be glad to.’… I was standing beside his bed and he was sitting upbetween the sheets, clad in his underwear, with a greatportfolio in his hands.‘Beauty and the Beast … Loneliness … Old GroceryHorse … Brook’n Bridge ….’Then I was lying half asleep in the cold lower level of thePennsylvania Station, staring at the morning ‘Tribune’ andwaiting for the four o’clock train.The Great GatsbyChapter 3There was music from my neighbor’s house through thesummer nights. In his blue gardens men and girls cameand went like moths among the whisperings and the cham-pagne and the stars. At high tide in the afternoon I watchedhis guests diving from the tower of his raft or taking thesun on the hot sand of his beach while his two motor-boatsslit the waters of the Sound, drawing aquaplanes over cat-aracts of foam. On week-ends his Rolls-Royce became anomnibus, bearing parties to and from the city, betweennine in the morning and long past midnight, while his sta-tion wagon scampered like a brisk yellow bug to meet alltrains. And on Mondays eight servants including an extragardener toiled all day with mops and scrubbing-brushesand hammers and garden-shears, repairing the ravages ofthe night before.Every Friday five crates of oranges and lemons arrivedfrom a fruiterer in New York—every Monday these sameoranges and lemons left his back door in a pyramid of pulp-less halves. There was a machine in the kitchen which couldextract the juice of two hundred oranges in half an hour, ifa little button was pressed two hundred times by a butler’sthumb.At least once a fortnight a corps of caterers came downwith several hundred feet of canvas and enough coloredFree eBooks at Planet eBook.comlights to make a Christmas tree of Gatsby’s enormousgarden. On buffet tables, garnished with glistening hors-d’oeuvre, spiced baked hams crowded against salads ofharlequin designs and pastry pigs and turkeys bewitched toa dark gold. In the main hall a bar with a real brass rail wasset up, and stocked with gins and liquors and with cordialsso long forgotten that most of his female guests were tooyoung to know one from another.By seven o’clock the orchestra has arrived—no thin five-piece affair but a whole pitful of oboes and trombones andsaxophones and viols and cornets and piccolos and low andhigh drums. The last swimmers have come in from the beachnow and are dressing upstairs; the cars from New York areparked five deep in the drive, and already the halls and sa-lons and verandas are gaudy with primary colors and hairshorn in strange new ways and shawls beyond the dreamsof Castile. The bar is in full swing and floating rounds ofcocktails permeate the garden outside until the air is alivewith chatter and laughter and casual innuendo and intro-ductions forgotten on the spot and enthusiastic meetingsbetween women who never knew each other’s names.The lights grow brighter as the earth lurches away fromthe sun and now the orchestra is playing yellow cocktailmusic and the opera of voices pitches a key higher. Laughteris easier, minute by minute, spilled with prodigality, tippedout at a cheerful word. The groups change more swift-ly, swell with new arrivals, dissolve and form in the samebreath—already there are wanderers, confident girls whoweave here and there among the stouter and more stable,The Great Gatsbybecome for a sharp, joyous moment the center of a groupand then excited with triumph glide on through the sea-change of faces and voices and color under the constantlychanging light.Suddenly one of these gypsies in trembling opal, seizes acocktail out of the air, dumps it down for courage and mov-ing her hands like Frisco dances out alone on the canvasplatform. A momentary hush; the orchestra leader varieshis rhythm obligingly for her and there is a burst of chatteras the erroneous news goes around that she is Gilda Gray’sunderstudy from the ‘Follies.’ The party has begun.I believe that on the first night I went to Gatsby’s houseI was one of the few guests who had actually been invit-ed. People were not invited—they went there. They got intoautomobiles which bore them out to Long Island and some-how they ended up at Gatsby’s door. Once there they wereintroduced by somebody who knew Gatsby and after thatthey conducted themselves according to the rules of be-havior associated with amusement parks. Sometimes theycame and went without having met Gatsby at all, came forthe party with a simplicity of heart that was its own ticketof admission.I had been actually invited. A chauffeur in a uniform ofrobin’s egg blue crossed my lawn early that Saturday morn-ing with a surprisingly formal note from his employer—thehonor would be entirely Gatsby’s, it said, if I would attendhis ‘little party’ that night. He had seen me several timesand had intended to call on me long before but a peculiarcombination of circumstances had prevented it—signed JayFree eBooks at Planet eBook.comGatsby in a majestic hand.Dressed up in white flannels I went over to his lawn alittle after seven and wandered around rather ill-at-easeamong swirls and eddies of people I didn’t know—thoughhere and there was a face I had noticed on the commut-ing train. I was immediately struck by the number of youngEnglishmen dotted about; all well dressed, all looking a lit-tle hungry and all talking in low earnest voices to solid andprosperous Americans. I was sure that they were sellingsomething: bonds or insurance or automobiles. They were,at least, agonizingly aware of the easy money in the vicin-ity and convinced that it was theirs for a few words in theright key.As soon as I arrived I made an attempt to find my hostbut the two or three people of whom I asked his where-abouts stared at me in such an amazed way and denied sovehemently any knowledge of his movements that I slunkoff in the direction of the cocktail table—the only place inthe garden where a single man could linger without lookingpurposeless and alone.I was on my way to get roaring drunk from sheer em-barrassment when Jordan Baker came out of the house andstood at the head of the marble steps, leaning a little back-ward and looking with contemptuous interest down intothe garden.Welcome or not, I found it necessary to attach myself tosomeone before I should begin to address cordial remarksto the passers-by.‘Hello!’ I roared, advancing toward her. My voice seemedThe Great Gatsbyunnaturally loud across the garden.‘I thought you might be here,’ she responded absently as Icame up. ‘I remembered you lived next door to——‘She held my hand impersonally, as a promise that she’dtake care of me in a minute, and gave ear to two girls in twinyellow dresses who stopped at the foot of the steps.‘Hello!’ they cried together. ‘Sorry you didn’t win.’That was for the golf tournament. She had lost in the fi-nals the week before.‘You don’t know who we are,’ said one of the girls in yel-low, ‘but we met you here about a month ago.’‘You’ve dyed your hair since then,’ remarked Jordan, andI started but the girls had moved casually on and her re-mark was addressed to the premature moon, produced likethe supper, no doubt, out of a caterer’s basket. With Jordan’sslender golden arm resting in mine we descended the stepsand sauntered about the garden. A tray of cocktails floatedat us through the twilight and we sat down at a table withthe two girls in yellow and three men, each one introducedto us as Mr. Mumble.‘Do you come to these parties often?’ inquired Jordan ofthe girl beside her.‘The last one was the one I met you at,’ answered the girl,in an alert, confident voice. She turned to her companion:‘Wasn’t it for you, Lucille?’It was for Lucille, too.‘I like to come,’ Lucille said. ‘I never care what I do, soI always have a good time. When I was here last I tore mygown on a chair, and he asked me my name and address—Free eBooks at Planet eBook.cominside of a week I got a package from Croirier’s with a newevening gown in it.’‘Did you keep it?’ asked Jordan.‘Sure I did. I was going to wear it tonight, but it was toobig in the bust and had to be altered. It was gas blue withlavender beads. Two hundred and sixty-five dollars.’‘There’s something funny about a fellow that’ll do a thinglike that,’ said the other girl eagerly. ‘He doesn’t want anytrouble with ANYbody.’‘Who doesn’t?’ I inquired.‘Gatsby. Somebody told me——‘The two girls and Jordan leaned together confidentially.‘Somebody told me they thought he killed a man once.’A thrill passed over all of us. The three Mr. Mumblesbent forward and listened eagerly.‘I don’t think it’s so much THAT,’ argued Lucille skepti-cally; ‘it’s more that he was a German spy during the war.’One of the men nodded in confirmation.‘I heard that from a man who knew all about him, grewup with him in Germany,’ he assured us positively.‘Oh, no,’ said the first girl, ‘it couldn’t be that, because hewas in the American army during the war.’ As our credulityswitched back to her she leaned forward with enthusiasm.‘You look at him sometimes when he thinks nobody’s look-ing at him. I’ll bet he killed a man.’She narrowed her eyes and shivered. Lucille shivered.We all turned and looked around for Gatsby. It was testimo-ny to the romantic speculation he inspired that there werewhispers about him from those who found little that it wasThe Great Gatsbynecessary to whisper about in this world.The first supper—there would be another one after mid-night—was now being served, and Jordan invited me to joinher own party who were spread around a table on the otherside of the garden. There were three married couples andJordan’s escort, a persistent undergraduate given to violentinnuendo and obviously under the impression that sooneror later Jordan was going to yield him up her person to agreater or lesser degree. Instead of rambling this party hadpreserved a dignified homogeneity, and assumed to itself thefunction of representing the staid nobility of the country-side—East Egg condescending to West Egg, and carefullyon guard against its spectroscopic gayety.‘Let’s get out,’ whispered Jordan, after a somehow waste-ful and inappropriate half hour. ‘This is much too polite forme.’We got up, and she explained that we were going to findthe host—I had never met him, she said, and it was makingme uneasy. The undergraduate nodded in a cynical, melan-choly way.The bar, where we glanced first, was crowded but Gatsbywas not there. She couldn’t find him from the top of thesteps, and he wasn’t on the veranda. On a chance we triedan important-looking door, and walked into a high Goth-ic library, panelled with carved English oak, and probablytransported complete from some ruin overseas.A stout, middle-aged man with enormous owl-eyed spec-tacles was sitting somewhat drunk on the edge of a greattable, staring with unsteady concentration at the shelves ofFree eBooks at Planet eBook.combooks. As we entered he wheeled excitedly around and ex-amined Jordan from head to foot.‘What do you think?’ he demanded impetuously.‘About what?’He waved his hand toward the book-shelves.‘About that. As a matter of fact you needn’t bother to as-certain. I ascertained. They’re real.’‘The books?’He nodded.‘Absolutely real—have pages and everything. I thoughtthey’d be a nice durable cardboard. Matter of fact, they’reabsolutely real. Pages and—Here! Lemme show you.’Taking our skepticism for granted, he rushed to thebookcases and returned with Volume One of the ‘StoddardLectures.’‘See!’ he cried triumphantly. ‘It’s a bona fide piece ofprinted matter. It fooled me. This fella’s a regular Belasco.It’s a triumph. What thoroughness! What realism! Knewwhen to stop too—didn’t cut the pages. But what do youwant? What do you expect?’He snatched the book from me and replaced it hastily onits shelf muttering that if one brick was removed the wholelibrary was liable to collapse.‘Who brought you?’ he demanded. ‘Or did you just come?I was brought. Most people were brought.’Jordan looked at him alertly, cheerfully without answer-ing.‘I was brought by a woman named Roosevelt,’ he con-tinued. ‘Mrs. Claud Roosevelt. Do you know her? I met her0The Great Gatsbysomewhere last night. I’ve been drunk for about a week now,and I thought it might sober me up to sit in a library.’‘Has it?’‘A little bit, I think. I can’t tell yet. I’ve only been here anhour. Did I tell you about the books? They’re real. They’re——‘‘You told us.’We shook hands with him gravely and went back out-doors.There was dancing now on the canvas in the garden,old men pushing young girls backward in eternal grace-less circles, superior couples holding each other tortuously,fashionably and keeping in the corners—and a great num-ber of single girls dancing individualistically or relievingthe orchestra for a moment of the burden of the banjo or thetraps. By midnight the hilarity had increased. A celebratedtenor had sung in Italian and a notorious contralto had sungin jazz and between the numbers people were doing ‘stunts’all over the garden, while happy vacuous bursts of laughterrose toward the summer sky. A pair of stage ‘twins’—whoturned out to be the girls in yellow—did a baby act in cos-tume and champagne was served in glasses bigger thanfinger bowls. The moon had risen higher, and floating in theSound was a triangle of silver scales, trembling a little to thestiff, tinny drip of the banjoes on the lawn.I was still with Jordan Baker. We were sitting at a tablewith a man of about my age and a rowdy little girl who gaveway upon the slightest provocation to uncontrollable laugh-ter. I was enjoying myself now. I had taken two finger bowlsFree eBooks at Planet eBook.com1of champagne and the scene had changed before my eyesinto something significant, elemental and profound.At a lull in the entertainment the man looked at me andsmiled.‘Your face is familiar,’ he said, politely. ‘Weren’t you inthe Third Division during the war?’‘Why, yes. I was in the Ninth Machine-Gun Battalion.’‘I was in the Seventh Infantry until June nineteen-eigh-teen. I knew I’d seen you somewhere before.’We talked for a moment about some wet, grey little vil-lages in France. Evidently he lived in this vicinity for he toldme that he had just bought a hydroplane and was going totry it out in the morning.‘Want to go with me, old sport? Just near the shore alongthe Sound.’‘What time?’‘Any time that suits you best.’It was on the tip of my tongue to ask his name when Jor-dan looked around and smiled.‘Having a gay time now?’ she inquired.‘Much better.’ I turned again to my new acquaintance.‘This is an unusual party for me. I haven’t even seen thehost. I live over there——’ I waved my hand at the invisiblehedge in the distance, ‘and this man Gatsby sent over hischauffeur with an invitation.’For a moment he looked at me as if he failed to under-stand.‘I’m Gatsby,’ he said suddenly.‘What!’ I exclaimed. ‘Oh, I beg your pardon.’The Great Gatsby‘I thought you knew, old sport. I’m afraid I’m not a verygood host.’He smiled understandingly—much more than under-standingly. It was one of those rare smiles with a quality ofeternal reassurance in it, that you may come across four orfive times in life. It faced—or seemed to face—the whole ex-ternal world for an instant, and then concentrated on YOUwith an irresistible prejudice in your favor. It understoodyou just so far as you wanted to be understood, believedin you as you would like to believe in yourself and assuredyou that it had precisely the impression of you that, at yourbest, you hoped to convey. Precisely at that point it van-ished—and I was looking at an elegant young rough-neck, ayear or two over thirty, whose elaborate formality of speechjust missed being absurd. Some time before he introducedhimself I’d got a strong impression that he was picking hiswords with care.Almost at the moment when Mr. Gatsby identified him-self a butler hurried toward him with the information thatChicago was calling him on the wire. He excused himselfwith a small bow that included each of us in turn.‘If you want anything just ask for it, old sport,’ he urgedme. ‘Excuse me. I will rejoin you later.’When he was gone I turned immediately to Jordan—constrained to assure her of my surprise. I had expectedthat Mr. Gatsby would be a florid and corpulent person inhis middle years.‘Who is he?’ I demanded. ‘Do you know?’‘He’s just a man named Gatsby.’Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com‘Where is he from, I mean? And what does he do?’‘Now YOU’re started on the subject,’ she answered witha wan smile. ‘Well,—he told me once he was an Oxfordman.’A dim background started to take shape behind him butat her next remark it faded away.‘However, I don’t believe it.’‘Why not?’‘I don’t know,’ she insisted, ‘I just don’t think he wentthere.’Something in her tone reminded me of the other girl’s ‘Ithink he killed a man,’ and had the effect of stimulating mycuriosity. I would have accepted without question the infor-mation that Gatsby sprang from the swamps of Louisianaor from the lower East Side of New York. That was compre-hensible. But young men didn’t—at least in my provincialinexperience I believed they didn’t—drift coolly out of no-where and buy a palace on Long Island Sound.‘Anyhow he gives large parties,’ said Jordan, changingthe subject with an urbane distaste for the concrete. ‘And Ilike large parties. They’re so intimate. At small parties thereisn’t any privacy.’There was the boom of a bass drum, and the voice of theorchestra leader rang out suddenly above the echolalia ofthe garden.‘Ladies and gentlemen,’ he cried. ‘At the request of Mr.Gatsby we are going to play for you Mr. Vladimir Tostoff’slatest work which attracted so much attention at CarnegieHall last May. If you read the papers you know there wasThe Great Gatsbya big sensation.’ He smiled with jovial condescension andadded ‘Some sensation!’ whereupon everybody laughed.‘The piece is known,’ he concluded lustily, ‘as ‘VladimirTostoff’s Jazz History of the World.’ ‘The nature of Mr. Tostoff’s composition eluded me, be-cause just as it began my eyes fell on Gatsby, standing aloneon the marble steps and looking from one group to anotherwith approving eyes. His tanned skin was drawn attractive-ly tight on his face and his short hair looked as though itwere trimmed every day. I could see nothing sinister abouthim. I wondered if the fact that he was not drinking helpedto set him off from his guests, for it seemed to me that hegrew more correct as the fraternal hilarity increased. Whenthe ‘Jazz History of the World’ was over girls were puttingtheir heads on men’s shoulders in a puppyish, convivialway, girls were swooning backward playfully into men’sarms, even into groups knowing that some one would ar-rest their falls—but no one swooned backward on Gatsbyand no French bob touched Gatsby’s shoulder and no sing-ing quartets were formed with Gatsby’s head for one link.‘I beg your pardon.’Gatsby’s butler was suddenly standing beside us.‘Miss Baker?’ he inquired. ‘I beg your pardon but Mr.Gatsby would like to speak to you alone.’‘With me?’ she exclaimed in surprise.‘Yes, madame.’She got up slowly, raising her eyebrows at me in aston-ishment, and followed the butler toward the house. I noticedthat she wore her evening dress, all her dresses, like sportsFree eBooks at Planet eBook.comclothes—there was a jauntiness about her movements as ifshe had first learned to walk upon golf courses on clean,crisp mornings.I was alone and it was almost two. For some time confusedand intriguing sounds had issued from a long many-win-dowed room which overhung the terrace. Eluding Jordan’sundergraduate who was now engaged in an obstetrical con-versation with two chorus girls, and who implored me tojoin him, I went inside.The large room was full of people. One of the girls inyellow was playing the piano and beside her stood a tall,red haired young lady from a famous chorus, engaged insong. She had drunk a quantity of champagne and duringthe course of her song she had decided ineptly that every-thing was very very sad—she was not only singing, she wasweeping too. Whenever there was a pause in the song shefilled it with gasping broken sobs and then took up the lyr-ic again in a quavering soprano. The tears coursed downher cheeks—not freely, however, for when they came intocontact with her heavily beaded eyelashes they assumed aninky color, and pursued the rest of their way in slow blackrivulets. A humorous suggestion was made that she sing thenotes on her face whereupon she threw up her hands, sankinto a chair and went off into a deep vinous sleep.‘She had a fight with a man who says he’s her husband,’explained a girl at my elbow.I looked around. Most of the remaining women werenow having fights with men said to be their husbands. EvenJordan’s party, the quartet from East Egg, were rent asun-The Great Gatsbyder by dissension. One of the men was talking with curiousintensity to a young actress, and his wife after attempt-ing to laugh at the situation in a dignified and indifferentway broke down entirely and resorted to flank attacks—atintervals she appeared suddenly at his side like an angrydiamond, and hissed ‘You promised!’ into his ear.The reluctance to go home was not confined to waywardmen. The hall was at present occupied by two deplorably so-ber men and their highly indignant wives. The wives weresympathizing with each other in slightly raised voices.‘Whenever he sees I’m having a good time he wants togo home.’‘Never heard anything so selfish in my life.’‘We’re always the first ones to leave.’‘So are we.’‘Well, we’re almost the last tonight,’ said one of the mensheepishly. ‘The orchestra left half an hour ago.’In spite of the wives’ agreement that such malevolencewas beyond credibility, the dispute ended in a short strug-gle, and both wives were lifted kicking into the night.As I waited for my hat in the hall the door of the libraryopened and Jordan Baker and Gatsby came out together.He was saying some last word to her but the eagerness in hismanner tightened abruptly into formality as several peopleapproached him to say goodbye.Jordan’s party were calling impatiently to her from theporch but she lingered for a moment to shake hands.‘I’ve just heard the most amazing thing,’ she whispered.‘How long were we in there?’Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com‘Why,—about an hour.’‘It was—simply amazing,’ she repeated abstractedly. ‘ButI swore I wouldn’t tell it and here I am tantalizing you.’ Sheyawned gracefully in my face. ‘Please come and see me….Phone book…. Under the name of Mrs. Sigourney How-ard…. My aunt….’ She was hurrying off as she talked—herbrown hand waved a jaunty salute as she melted into herparty at the door.Rather ashamed that on my first appearance I had stayedso late, I joined the last of Gatsby’s guests who were clus-tered around him. I wanted to explain that I’d hunted forhim early in the evening and to apologize for not havingknown him in the garden.‘Don’t mention it,’ he enjoined me eagerly. ‘Don’t give itanother thought, old sport.’ The familiar expression held nomore familiarity than the hand which reassuringly brushedmy shoulder. ‘And don’t forget we’re going up in the hydro-plane tomorrow morning at nine o’clock.’Then the butler, behind his shoulder:‘Philadelphia wants you on the phone, sir.’‘All right, in a minute. Tell them I’ll be right there….good night.’‘Good night.’‘Good night.’ He smiled—and suddenly there seemedto be a pleasant significance in having been among the lastto go, as if he had desired it all the time. ‘Good night, oldsport…. Good night.’But as I walked down the steps I saw that the evening wasnot quite over. Fifty feet from the door a dozen headlightsThe Great Gatsbyilluminated a bizarre and tumultuous scene. In the ditch be-side the road, right side up but violently shorn of one wheel,rested a new coupe which had left Gatsby’s drive not twominutes before. The sharp jut of a wall accounted for the de-tachment of the wheel which was now getting considerableattention from half a dozen curious chauffeurs. However, asthey had left their cars blocking the road a harsh discordantdin from those in the rear had been audible for some timeand added to the already violent confusion of the scene.A man in a long duster had dismounted from the wreckand now stood in the middle of the road, looking from thecar to the tire and from the tire to the observers in a pleas-ant, puzzled way.‘See!’ he explained. ‘It went in the ditch.’The fact was infinitely astonishing to him—and I rec-ognized first the unusual quality of wonder and then theman—it was the late patron of Gatsby’s library.‘How’d it happen?’He shrugged his shoulders.‘I know nothing whatever about mechanics,’ he said de-cisively.‘But how did it happen? Did you run into the wall?’‘Don’t ask me,’ said Owl Eyes, washing his hands of thewhole matter. ‘I know very little about driving—next tonothing. It happened, and that’s all I know.’‘Well, if you’re a poor driver you oughtn’t to try drivingat night.’‘But I wasn’t even trying,’ he explained indignantly, ‘Iwasn’t even trying.’Free eBooks at Planet eBook.comAn awed hush fell upon the bystanders.‘Do you want to commit suicide?’‘You’re lucky it was just a wheel! A bad driver and noteven TRYing!’‘You don’t understand,’ explained the criminal. ‘I wasn’tdriving. There’s another man in the car.’The shock that followed this declaration found voice ina sustained ‘Ah-h-h!’ as the door of the coupe swung slowlyopen. The crowd—it was now a crowd—stepped back in-voluntarily and when the door had opened wide there wasa ghostly pause. Then, very gradually, part by part, a paledangling individual stepped out of the wreck, pawing tenta-tively at the ground with a large uncertain dancing shoe.Blinded by the glare of the headlights and confused bythe incessant groaning of the horns the apparition stoodswaying for a moment before he perceived the man in theduster.‘Wha’s matter?’ he inquired calmly. ‘Did we run outagas?’‘Look!’Half a dozen fingers pointed at the amputated wheel—hestared at it for a moment and then looked upward as thoughhe suspected that it had dropped from the sky.‘It came off,’ some one explained.He nodded.‘At first I din’ notice we’d stopped.’A pause. Then, taking a long breath and straighteninghis shoulders he remarked in a determined voice:‘Wonder’ff tell me where there’s a gas’line station?’0The Great GatsbyAt least a dozen men, some of them little better off thanhe was, explained to him that wheel and car were no longerjoined by any physical bond.‘Back out,’ he suggested after a moment. ‘Put her in re-verse.’‘But the WHEEL’S off!’He hesitated.‘No harm in trying,’ he said.The caterwauling horns had reached a crescendo and Iturned away and cut across the lawn toward home. I glancedback once. A wafer of a moon was shining over Gatsby’shouse, making the night fine as before and surviving thelaughter and the sound of his still glowing garden. A sud-den emptiness seemed to flow now from the windows andthe great doors, endowing with complete isolation the fig-ure of the host who stood on the porch, his hand up in aformal gesture of farewell.Reading over what I have written so far I see I have giventhe impression that the events of three nights several weeksapart were all that absorbed me. On the contrary they weremerely casual events in a crowded summer and, until muchlater, they absorbed me infinitely less than my personal af-fairs.Most of the time I worked. In the early morning the sunthrew my shadow westward as I hurried down the whitechasms of lower New York to the Probity Trust. I knew theother clerks and young bond-salesmen by their first namesand lunched with them in dark crowded restaurants onlittle pig sausages and mashed potatoes and coffee. I evenFree eBooks at Planet eBook.com1had a short affair with a girl who lived in Jersey City andworked in the accounting department, but her brother be-gan throwing mean looks in my direction so when she wenton her vacation in July I let it blow quietly away.I took dinner usually at the Yale Club—for some reasonit was the gloomiest event of my day—and then I went up-stairs to the library and studied investments and securitiesfor a conscientious hour. There were generally a few riotersaround but they never came into the library so it was a goodplace to work. After that, if the night was mellow I strolleddown Madison Avenue past the old Murray Hill Hotel andover Thirty-third Street to the Pennsylvania Station.I began to like New York, the racy, adventurous feel ofit at night and the satisfaction that the constant flicker ofmen and women and machines gives to the restless eye. Iliked to walk up Fifth Avenue and pick out romantic wom-en from the crowd and imagine that in a few minutes I wasgoing to enter into their lives, and no one would ever knowor disapprove. Sometimes, in my mind, I followed them totheir apartments on the corners of hidden streets, and theyturned and smiled back at me before they faded througha door into warm darkness. At the enchanted metropoli-tan twilight I felt a haunting loneliness sometimes, andfelt it in others—poor young clerks who loitered in front ofwindows waiting until it was time for a solitary restaurantdinner—young clerks in the dusk, wasting the most poi-gnant moments of night and life.Again at eight o’clock, when the dark lanes of the For-ties were five deep with throbbing taxi cabs, bound for theThe Great Gatsbytheatre district, I felt a sinking in my heart. Forms leanedtogether in the taxis as they waited, and voices sang, andthere was laughter from unheard jokes, and lighted ciga-rettes outlined unintelligible gestures inside. Imaginingthat I, too, was hurrying toward gayety and sharing theirintimate excitement, I wished them well.For a while I lost sight of Jordan Baker, and then in mid-summer I found her again. At first I was flattered to goplaces with her because she was a golf champion and ev-ery one knew her name. Then it was something more. Iwasn’t actually in love, but I felt a sort of tender curiosity.The bored haughty face that she turned to the world con-cealed something—most affectations conceal somethingeventually, even though they don’t in the beginning—andone day I found what it was. When we were on a house-party together up in Warwick, she left a borrowed car outin the rain with the top down, and then lied about it—andsuddenly I remembered the story about her that had eludedme that night at Daisy’s. At her first big golf tournamentthere was a row that nearly reached the newspapers—a sug-gestion that she had moved her ball from a bad lie in thesemi-final round. The thing approached the proportions ofa scandal—then died away. A caddy retracted his statementand the only other witness admitted that he might havebeen mistaken. The incident and the name had remainedtogether in my mind.Jordan Baker instinctively avoided clever shrewd menand now I saw that this was because she felt safer on a planewhere any divergence from a code would be thought impos-Free eBooks at Planet eBook.comsible. She was incurably dishonest. She wasn’t able to endurebeing at a disadvantage, and given this unwillingness I sup-pose she had begun dealing in subterfuges when she wasvery young in order to keep that cool, insolent smile turnedto the world and yet satisfy the demands of her hard jauntybody.It made no difference to me. Dishonesty in a woman isa thing you never blame deeply—I was casually sorry, andthen I forgot. It was on that same house party that we had acurious conversation about driving a car. It started becauseshe passed so close to some workmen that our fender flickeda button on one man’s coat.‘You’re a rotten driver,’ I protested. ‘Either you ought tobe more careful or you oughtn’t to drive at all.’‘I am careful.’‘No, you’re not.’‘Well, other people are,’ she said lightly.‘What’s that got to do with it?’‘They’ll keep out of my way,’ she insisted. ‘It takes two tomake an accident.’‘Suppose you met somebody just as careless as yourself.’‘I hope I never will,’ she answered. ‘I hate careless people.That’s why I like you.’Her grey, sun-strained eyes stared straight ahead, butshe had deliberately shifted our relations, and for a momentI thought I loved her. But I am slow-thinking and full ofinterior rules that act as brakes on my desires, and I knewthat first I had to get myself definitely out of that tangleback home. I’d been writing letters once a week and signingThe Great Gatsbythem: ‘Love, Nick,’ and all I could think of was how, whenthat certain girl played tennis, a faint mustache of perspi-ration appeared on her upper lip. Nevertheless there was avague understanding that had to be tactfully broken off be-fore I was free.Every one suspects himself of at least one of the cardinalvirtues, and this is mine: I am one of the few honest peoplethat I have ever known.Free eBooks at Planet eBook.comChapter 4On Sunday morning while church bells rang in the vil-lages along shore the world and its mistress returnedto Gatsby’s house and twinkled hilariously on his lawn.‘He’s a bootlegger,’ said the young ladies, moving some-where between his cocktails and his flowers. ‘One time hekilled a man who had found out that he was nephew to vonHindenburg and second cousin to the devil. Reach me arose, honey, and pour me a last drop into that there crys-tal glass.’Once I wrote down on the empty spaces of a time-tablethe names of those who came to Gatsby’s house that sum-mer. It is an old time-table now, disintegrating at its foldsand headed ‘This schedule in effect July 5th, 1922.’ But Ican still read the grey names and they will give you a bet-ter impression than my generalities of those who acceptedGatsby’s hospitality and paid him the subtle tribute ofknowing nothing whatever about him.From East Egg, then, came the Chester Beckers and theLeeches and a man named Bunsen whom I knew at Yale andDoctor Webster Civet who was drowned last summer up inMaine. And the Hornbeams and the Willie Voltaires and awhole clan named Blackbuck who always gathered in a cor-ner and flipped up their noses like goats at whosoever camenear. And the Ismays and the Chrysties (or rather HubertThe Great GatsbyAuerbach and Mr. Chrystie’s wife) and Edgar Beaver, whosehair they say turned cotton-white one winter afternoon forno good reason at all.Clarence Endive was from East Egg, as I remember. Hecame only once, in white knickerbockers, and had a fightwith a bum named Etty in the garden. From farther outon the Island came the Cheadles and the O. R. P. Schraed-ers and the Stonewall Jackson Abrams of Georgia and theFishguards and the Ripley Snells. Snell was there three daysbefore he went to the penitentiary, so drunk out on the grav-el drive that Mrs. Ulysses Swett’s automobile ran over hisright hand. The Dancies came too and S. B. Whitebait, whowas well over sixty, and Maurice A. Flink and the Hammer-heads and Beluga the tobacco importer and Beluga’s girls.From West Egg came the Poles and the Mulreadys andCecil Roebuck and Cecil Schoen and Gulick the state sena-tor and Newton Orchid who controlled Films Par Excellenceand Eckhaust and Clyde Cohen and Don S. Schwartze (theson) and Arthur McCarty, all connected with the movies inone way or another. And the Catlips and the Bembergs andG. Earl Muldoon, brother to that Muldoon who afterwardstrangled his wife. Da Fontano the promoter came there,and Ed Legros and James B. (“Rot-Gut’) Ferret and the DeJongs and Ernest Lilly—they came to gamble and when Fer-ret wandered into the garden it meant he was cleaned outand Associated Traction would have to fluctuate profitablynext day.A man named Klipspringer was there so often and solong that he became known as ‘the boarder’—I doubt ifFree eBooks at Planet eBook.comhe had any other home. Of theatrical people there wereGus Waize and Horace O’Donavan and Lester Meyer andGeorge Duckweed and Francis Bull. Also from New Yorkwere the Chromes and the Backhyssons and the Dennick-ers and Russel Betty and the Corrigans and the Kellehersand the Dewars and the Scullys and S. W. Belcher and theSmirkes and the young Quinns, divorced now, and HenryL. Palmetto who killed himself by jumping in front of a sub-way train in Times Square.Benny McClenahan arrived always with four girls. Theywere never quite the same ones in physical person butthey were so identical one with another that it inevitablyseemed they had been there before. I have forgotten theirnames—Jaqueline, I think, or else Consuela or Gloria orJudy or June, and their last names were either the melodi-ous names of flowers and months or the sterner ones of thegreat American capitalists whose cousins, if pressed, theywould confess themselves to be.In addition to all these I can remember that FaustinaO’Brien came there at least once and the Baedeker girlsand young Brewer who had his nose shot off in the war andMr. Albrucksburger and Miss Haag, his fiancee, and ArditaFitz-Peters, and Mr. P. Jewett, once head of the AmericanLegion, and Miss Claudia Hip with a man reputed to be herchauffeur, and a prince of something whom we called Dukeand whose name, if I ever knew it, I have forgotten.All these people came to Gatsby’s house in the summer.At nine o’clock, one morning late in July Gatsby’s gor-geous car lurched up the rocky drive to my door and gaveThe Great Gatsbyout a burst of melody from its three noted horn. It was thefirst time he had called on me though I had gone to two ofhis parties, mounted in his hydroplane, and, at his urgentinvitation, made frequent use of his beach.‘Good morning, old sport. You’re having lunch with metoday and I thought we’d ride up together.’He was balancing himself on the dashboard of his carwith that resourcefulness of movement that is so peculiarlyAmerican—that comes, I suppose, with the absence of lift-ing work or rigid sitting in youth and, even more, with theformless grace of our nervous, sporadic games. This qualitywas continually breaking through his punctilious mannerin the shape of restlessness. He was never quite still; therewas always a tapping foot somewhere or the impatient open-ing and closing of a hand.He saw me looking with admiration at his car.‘It’s pretty, isn’t it, old sport.’ He jumped off to give me abetter view. ‘Haven’t you ever seen it before?’I’d seen it. Everybody had seen it. It was a rich creamcolor, bright with nickel, swollen here and there in its mon-strous length with triumphant hatboxes and supper-boxesand tool-boxes, and terraced with a labyrinth of windshieldsthat mirrored a dozen suns. Sitting down behind many lay-ers of glass in a sort of green leather conservatory we startedto town.I had talked with him perhaps half a dozen times in thepast month and found, to my disappointment, that he hadlittle to say. So my first impression, that he was a personof some undefined consequence, had gradually faded andFree eBooks at Planet eBook.comhe had become simply the proprietor of an elaborate road-house next door.And then came that disconcerting ride. We hadn’treached West Egg village before Gatsby began leaving hiselegant sentences unfinished and slapping himself indeci-sively on the knee of his caramel-colored suit.‘Look here, old sport,’ he broke out surprisingly. ‘What’syour opinion of me, anyhow?’A little overwhelmed, I began the generalized evasionswhich that question deserves.‘Well, I’m going to tell you something about my life,’he interrupted. ‘I don’t want you to get a wrong idea of mefrom all these stories you hear.’So he was aware of the bizarre accusations that flavoredconversation in his halls.‘I’ll tell you God’s truth.’ His right hand suddenly or-dered divine retribution to stand by. ‘I am the son of somewealthy people in the middle-west—all dead now. I wasbrought up in America but educated at Oxford because allmy ancestors have been educated there for many years. It isa family tradition.’He looked at me sideways—and I knew why Jordan Bakerhad believed he was lying. He hurried the phrase ‘educatedat Oxford,’ or swallowed it or choked on it as though it hadbothered him before. And with this doubt his whole state-ment fell to pieces and I wondered if there wasn’t somethinga little sinister about him after all.‘What part of the middle-west?’ I inquired casually.‘San Francisco.’0The Great Gatsby‘I see.’‘My family all died and I came into a good deal of mon-ey.’His voice was solemn as if the memory of that sud-den extinction of a clan still haunted him. For a momentI suspected that he was pulling my leg but a glance at himconvinced me otherwise.‘After that I lived like a young rajah in all the capitalsof Europe—Paris, Venice, Rome—collecting jewels, chieflyrubies, hunting big game, painting a little, things for myselfonly, and trying to forget something very sad that had hap-pened to me long ago.’With an effort I managed to restrain my incredulouslaughter. The very phrases were worn so threadbare thatthey evoked no image except that of a turbaned ‘character’leaking sawdust at every pore as he pursued a tiger throughthe Bois de Boulogne.‘Then came the war, old sport. It was a great relief andI tried very hard to die but I seemed to bear an enchant-ed life. I accepted a commission as first lieutenant when itbegan. In the Argonne Forest I took two machine-gun de-tachments so far forward that there was a half mile gap oneither side of us where the infantry couldn’t advance. Westayed there two days and two nights, a hundred and thirtymen with sixteen Lewis guns, and when the infantry cameup at last they found the insignia of three German divisionsamong the piles of dead. I was promoted to be a major andevery Allied government gave me a decoration—even Mon-tenegro, little Montenegro down on the Adriatic Sea!’Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com1Little Montenegro! He lifted up the words and noddedat them—with his smile. The smile comprehended Monte-negro’s troubled history and sympathized with the bravestruggles of the Montenegrin people. It appreciated fullythe chain of national circumstances which had elicited thistribute from Montenegro’s warm little heart. My increduli-ty was submerged in fascination now; it was like skimminghastily through a dozen magazines.He reached in his pocket and a piece of metal, slung on aribbon, fell into my palm.‘That’s the one from Montenegro.’To my astonishment, the thing had an authentic look.Orderi di Danilo, ran the circular legend, Montenegro,Nicolas Rex.‘Turn it.’Major Jay Gatsby, I read, For Valour Extraordinary.‘Here’s another thing I always carry. A souvenir of Ox-ford days. It was taken in Trinity Quad—the man on my leftis now the Earl of Dorcaster.’It was a photograph of half a dozen young men in blazersloafing in an archway through which were visible a host ofspires. There was Gatsby, looking a little, not much, young-er—with a cricket bat in his hand.Then it was all true. I saw the skins of tigers flaming inhis palace on the Grand Canal; I saw him opening a chest ofrubies to ease, with their crimson-lighted depths, the gnaw-ings of his broken heart.‘I’m going to make a big request of you today,’ he said,pocketing his souvenirs with satisfaction, ‘so I thought youThe Great Gatsbyought to know something about me. I didn’t want you tothink I was just some nobody. You see, I usually find my-self among strangers because I drift here and there tryingto forget the sad thing that happened to me.’ He hesitated.‘You’ll hear about it this afternoon.’‘At lunch?’‘No, this afternoon. I happened to find out that you’retaking Miss Baker to tea.’‘Do you mean you’re in love with Miss Baker?’‘No, old sport, I’m not. But Miss Baker has kindly con-sented to speak to you about this matter.’I hadn’t the faintest idea what ‘this matter’ was, but I wasmore annoyed than interested. I hadn’t asked Jordan to teain order to discuss Mr. Jay Gatsby. I was sure the requestwould be something utterly fantastic and for a moment Iwas sorry I’d ever set foot upon his overpopulated lawn.He wouldn’t say another word. His correctness grew onhim as we neared the city. We passed Port Roosevelt, wherethere was a glimpse of red-belted ocean-going ships, andsped along a cobbled slum lined with the dark, undesertedsaloons of the faded gilt nineteen-hundreds. Then the valleyof ashes opened out on both sides of us, and I had a glimpseof Mrs. Wilson straining at the garage pump with pantingvitality as we went by.With fenders spread like wings we scattered light throughhalf Astoria—only half, for as we twisted among the pillarsof the elevated I heard the familiar ‘jug—jug—SPAT!’ of amotor cycle, and a frantic policeman rode alongside.‘All right, old sport,’ called Gatsby. We slowed down.Free eBooks at Planet eBook.comTaking a white card from his wallet he waved it before theman’s eyes.‘Right you are,’ agreed the policeman, tipping his cap.‘Know you next time, Mr. Gatsby. Excuse ME!’‘What was that?’ I inquired. ‘The picture of Oxford?’‘I was able to do the commissioner a favor once, and hesends me a Christmas card every year.’Over the great bridge, with the sunlight through thegirders making a constant flicker upon the moving cars,with the city rising up across the river in white heaps andsugar lumps all built with a wish out of non-olfactory mon-ey. The city seen from the Queensboro Bridge is always thecity seen for the first time, in its first wild promise of all themystery and the beauty in the world.A dead man passed us in a hearse heaped with blooms,followed by two carriages with drawn blinds and by morecheerful carriages for friends. The friends looked out at uswith the tragic eyes and short upper lips of south-easternEurope, and I was glad that the sight of Gatsby’s splendidcar was included in their somber holiday. As we crossedBlackwell’s Island a limousine passed us, driven by a whitechauffeur, in which sat three modish Negroes, two bucksand a girl. I laughed aloud as the yolks of their eyeballsrolled toward us in haughty rivalry.‘Anything can happen now that we’ve slid over thisbridge,’ I thought; ‘anything at all….’Even Gatsby could happen, without any particular won-der.Roaring noon. In a well-fanned Forty-second Street cel-The Great Gatsbylar I met Gatsby for lunch. Blinking away the brightness ofthe street outside my eyes picked him out obscurely in theanteroom, talking to another man.‘Mr. Carraway this is my friend Mr. Wolfshiem.’A small, flat-nosed Jew raised his large head and regard-ed me with two fine growths of hair which luxuriated ineither nostril. After a moment I discovered his tiny eyes inthe half darkness.‘—so I took one look at him—’ said Mr. Wolfshiem, shak-ing my hand earnestly, ‘—and what do you think I did?’‘What?’ I inquired politely.But evidently he was not addressing me for he droppedmy hand and covered Gatsby with his expressive nose.‘I handed the money to Katspaugh and I sid, ‘All right,Katspaugh, don’t pay him a penny till he shuts his mouth.’He shut it then and there.’Gatsby took an arm of each of us and moved forwardinto the restaurant whereupon Mr. Wolfshiem swallowed anew sentence he was starting and lapsed into a somnambu-latory abstraction.‘Highballs?’ asked the head waiter.‘This is a nice restaurant here,’ said Mr. Wolfshiem look-ing at the Presbyterian nymphs on the ceiling. ‘But I likeacross the street better!’‘Yes, highballs,’ agreed Gatsby, and then to Mr. Wolf-shiem: ‘It’s too hot over there.’‘Hot and small—yes,’ said Mr. Wolfshiem, ‘but full ofmemories.’‘What place is that?’ I asked.Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com‘The old Metropole.‘The old Metropole,’ brooded Mr. Wolfshiem gloomily.‘Filled with faces dead and gone. Filled with friends gonenow forever. I can’t forget so long as I live the night theyshot Rosy Rosenthal there. It was six of us at the table andRosy had eat and drunk a lot all evening. When it was al-most morning the waiter came up to him with a funnylook and says somebody wants to speak to him outside. ‘Allright,’ says Rosy and begins to get up and I pulled him downin his chair.’ ‘Let the bastards come in here if they want you, Rosy,but don’t you, so help me, move outside this room.’‘It was four o’clock in the morning then, and if we’d ofraised the blinds we’d of seen daylight.’‘Did he go?’ I asked innocently.‘Sure he went,’—Mr. Wolfshiem’s nose flashed at me in-dignantly—‘He turned around in the door and says, ‘Don’tlet that waiter take away my coffee!’ Then he went out onthe sidewalk and they shot him three times in his full bellyand drove away.’‘Four of them were electrocuted,’ I said, remembering.‘Five with Becker.’ His nostrils turned to me in an in-terested way. ‘I understand you’re looking for a businessgonnegtion.’The juxtaposition of these two remarks was startling.Gatsby answered for me:‘Oh, no,’ he exclaimed, ‘this isn’t the man!’‘No?’ Mr. Wolfshiem seemed disappointed.‘This is just a friend. I told you we’d talk about that someThe Great Gatsbyother time.’‘I beg your pardon,’ said Mr. Wolfshiem, ‘I had a wrongman.’A succulent hash arrived, and Mr. Wolfshiem, forget-ting the more sentimental atmosphere of the old Metropole,began to eat with ferocious delicacy. His eyes, meanwhile,roved very slowly all around the room—he completed thearc by turning to inspect the people directly behind. I thinkthat, except for my presence, he would have taken one shortglance beneath our own table.‘Look here, old sport,’ said Gatsby, leaning toward me,‘I’m afraid I made you a little angry this morning in thecar.’There was the smile again, but this time I held out againstit. ‘I don’t like mysteries,’ I answered. ‘And I don’t under-stand why you won’t come out frankly and tell me what youwant. Why has it all got to come through Miss Baker?’‘Oh, it’s nothing underhand,’ he assured me. ‘Miss Bak-er’s a great sportswoman, you know, and she’d never doanything that wasn’t all right.’Suddenly he looked at his watch, jumped up and hurriedfrom the room leaving me with Mr. Wolfshiem at the table.‘He has to telephone,’ said Mr. Wolfshiem, following himwith his eyes. ‘Fine fellow, isn’t he? Handsome to look at anda perfect gentleman.’‘Yes.’‘He’s an Oggsford man.’‘Oh!’Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com‘He went to Oggsford College in England. You knowOggsford College?’‘I’ve heard of it.’‘It’s one of the most famous colleges in the world.’‘Have you known Gatsby for a long time?’ I inquired.‘Several years,’ he answered in a gratified way. ‘I madethe pleasure of his acquaintance just after the war. But Iknew I had discovered a man of fine breeding after I talkedwith him an hour. I said to myself: ‘There’s the kind of manyou’d like to take home and introduce to your mother andsister.’ ‘ He paused. ‘I see you’re looking at my cuff buttons.’I hadn’t been looking at them, but I did now. They werecomposed of oddly familiar pieces of ivory.‘Finest specimens of human molars,’ he informed me.‘Well!’ I inspected them. ‘That’s a very interesting idea.’‘Yeah.’ He flipped his sleeves up under his coat. ‘Yeah,Gatsby’s very careful about women. He would never somuch as look at a friend’s wife.’When the subject of this instinctive trust returned to thetable and sat down Mr. Wolfshiem drank his coffee with ajerk and got to his feet.‘I have enjoyed my lunch,’ he said, ‘and I’m going to runoff from you two young men before I outstay my welcome.’‘Don’t hurry, Meyer,’ said Gatsby, without enthusiasm.Mr. Wolfshiem raised his hand in a sort of benediction.‘You’re very polite but I belong to another generation,’ heannounced solemnly. ‘You sit here and discuss your sportsand your young ladies and your——’ He supplied an imagi-nary noun with another wave of his hand—‘As for me, I amThe Great Gatsbyfifty years old, and I won’t impose myself on you any lon-ger.’As he shook hands and turned away his tragic nose wastrembling. I wondered if I had said anything to offend him.‘He becomes very sentimental sometimes,’ explainedGatsby. ‘This is one of his sentimental days. He’s quite acharacter around New York—a denizen of Broadway.’‘Who is he anyhow—an actor?’‘No.’‘A dentist?’‘Meyer Wolfshiem? No, he’s a gambler.’ Gatsby hesitated,then added coolly: ‘He’s the man who fixed the World’s Se-ries back in 1919.’‘Fixed the World’s Series?’ I repeated.The idea staggered me. I remembered of course that theWorld’s Series had been fixed in 1919 but if I had thoughtof it at all I would have thought of it as a thing that mere-ly HAPPENED, the end of some inevitable chain. It neveroccurred to me that one man could start to play with thefaith of fifty million people—with the single-mindedness ofa burglar blowing a safe.‘How did he happen to do that?’ I asked after a minute.‘He just saw the opportunity.’‘Why isn’t he in jail?’‘They can’t get him, old sport. He’s a smart man.’I insisted on paying the check. As the waiter brought mychange I caught sight of Tom Buchanan across the crowdedroom.‘Come along with me for a minute,’ I said. ‘I’ve got to sayFree eBooks at Planet eBook.comhello to someone.’When he saw us Tom jumped up and took half a dozensteps in our direction.‘Where’ve you been?’ he demanded eagerly. ‘Daisy’s furi-ous because you haven’t called up.’‘This is Mr. Gatsby, Mr. Buchanan.’They shook hands briefly and a strained, unfamiliar lookof embarrassment came over Gatsby’s face.‘How’ve you been, anyhow?’ demanded Tom of me.‘How’d you happen to come up this far to eat?’‘I’ve been having lunch with Mr. Gatsby.’I turned toward Mr. Gatsby, but he was no longer there.One October day in nineteen-seventeen—— (said JordanBaker that afternoon, sitting up very straight on a straightchair in the tea-garden at the Plaza Hotel) —I was walk-ing along from one place to another half on the sidewalksand half on the lawns. I was happier on the lawns because Ihad on shoes from England with rubber nobs on the solesthat bit into the soft ground. I had on a new plaid skirt alsothat blew a little in the wind and whenever this happenedthe red, white and blue banners in front of all the housesstretched out stiff and said TUT-TUT-TUT-TUT in a disap-proving way.The largest of the banners and the largest of the lawnsbelonged to Daisy Fay’s house. She was just eighteen, twoyears older than me, and by far the most popular of all theyoung girls in Louisville. She dressed in white, and had alittle white roadster and all day long the telephone rangin her house and excited young officers from Camp Tay-0The Great Gatsbylor demanded the privilege of monopolizing her that night,‘anyways, for an hour!’When I came opposite her house that morning her whiteroadster was beside the curb, and she was sitting in it with alieutenant I had never seen before. They were so engrossedin each other that she didn’t see me until I was five feetaway.‘Hello Jordan,’ she called unexpectedly. ‘Please comehere.’I was flattered that she wanted to speak to me, becauseof all the older girls I admired her most. She asked me if Iwas going to the Red Cross and make bandages. I was. Well,then, would I tell them that she couldn’t come that day? Theofficer looked at Daisy while she was speaking, in a waythat every young girl wants to be looked at sometime, andbecause it seemed romantic to me I have remembered theincident ever since. His name was Jay Gatsby and I didn’tlay eyes on him again for over four years—even after I’d methim on Long Island I didn’t realize it was the same man.That was nineteen-seventeen. By the next year I had afew beaux myself, and I began to play in tournaments, soI didn’t see Daisy very often. She went with a slightly old-er crowd—when she went with anyone at all. Wild rumorswere circulating about her—how her mother had found herpacking her bag one winter night to go to New York and saygoodbye to a soldier who was going overseas. She was effec-tually prevented, but she wasn’t on speaking terms with herfamily for several weeks. After that she didn’t play aroundwith the soldiers any more but only with a few flat-footed,Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com1short-sighted young men in town who couldn’t get into thearmy at all.By the next autumn she was gay again, gay as ever. Shehad a debut after the Armistice, and in February she waspresumably engaged to a man from New Orleans. In Juneshe married Tom Buchanan of Chicago with more pompand circumstance than Louisville ever knew before. Hecame down with a hundred people in four private cars andhired a whole floor of the Seelbach Hotel, and the day beforethe wedding he gave her a string of pearls valued at threehundred and fifty thousand dollars.I was bridesmaid. I came into her room half an hour be-fore the bridal dinner, and found her lying on her bed aslovely as the June night in her flowered dress—and as drunkas a monkey. She had a bottle of sauterne in one hand and aletter in the other.’ ‘Gratulate me,’ she muttered. ‘Never had a drink beforebut oh, how I do enjoy it.’‘What’s the matter, Daisy?’I was scared, I can tell you; I’d never seen a girl like thatbefore.‘Here, dearis.’ She groped around in a waste-basket shehad with her on the bed and pulled out the string of pearls.‘Take ‘em downstairs and give ‘em back to whoever theybelong to. Tell ‘em all Daisy’s change’ her mine. Say ‘Daisy’schange’ her mine!’.’She began to cry—she cried and cried. I rushed out andfound her mother’s maid and we locked the door and gother into a cold bath. She wouldn’t let go of the letter. SheThe Great Gatsbytook it into the tub with her and squeezed it up into a wetball, and only let me leave it in the soap dish when she sawthat it was coming to pieces like snow.But she didn’t say another word. We gave her spirits ofammonia and put ice on her forehead and hooked her backinto her dress and half an hour later when we walked out ofthe room the pearls were around her neck and the incidentwas over. Next day at five o’clock she married Tom Buchan-an without so much as a shiver and started off on a threemonths’ trip to the South Seas.I saw them in Santa Barbara when they came back andI thought I’d never seen a girl so mad about her husband.If he left the room for a minute she’d look around uneasilyand say ‘Where’s Tom gone?’ and wear the most abstract-ed expression until she saw him coming in the door. Sheused to sit on the sand with his head in her lap by the hourrubbing her fingers over his eyes and looking at him withunfathomable delight. It was touching to see them togeth-er—it made you laugh in a hushed, fascinated way. That wasin August. A week after I left Santa Barbara Tom ran intoa wagon on the Ventura road one night and ripped a frontwheel off his car. The girl who was with him got into the pa-pers too because her arm was broken—she was one of thechambermaids in the Santa Barbara Hotel.The next April Daisy had her little girl and they went toFrance for a year. I saw them one spring in Cannes and laterin Deauville and then they came back to Chicago to settledown. Daisy was popular in Chicago, as you know. Theymoved with a fast crowd, all of them young and rich andFree eBooks at Planet eBook.comwild, but she came out with an absolutely perfect reputation.Perhaps because she doesn’t drink. It’s a great advantage notto drink among hard-drinking people. You can hold yourtongue and, moreover, you can time any little irregulari-ty of your own so that everybody else is so blind that theydon’t see or care. Perhaps Daisy never went in for amour atall—and yet there’s something in that voice of hers….Well, about six weeks ago, she heard the name Gatsby forthe first time in years. It was when I asked you—do you re-member?—if you knew Gatsby in West Egg. After you hadgone home she came into my room and woke me up, andsaid ‘What Gatsby?’ and when I described him—I was halfasleep—she said in the strangest voice that it must be theman she used to know. It wasn’t until then that I connectedthis Gatsby with the officer in her white car.When Jordan Baker had finished telling all this we hadleft the Plaza for half an hour and were driving in a Victoriathrough Central Park. The sun had gone down behind thetall apartments of the movie stars in the West Fifties andthe clear voices of girls, already gathered like crickets on thegrass, rose through the hot twilight:‘I’m the Sheik of Araby,Your love belongs to me.At night when you’re are asleep,Into your tent I’ll creep——’‘It was a strange coincidence,’ I said.‘But it wasn’t a coincidence at all.’The Great Gatsby‘Why not?’‘Gatsby bought that house so that Daisy would be justacross the bay.’Then it had not been merely the stars to which he hadaspired on that June night. He came alive to me, deliveredsuddenly from the womb of his purposeless splendor.‘He wants to know—’ continued Jordan ‘—if you’ll in-vite Daisy to your house some afternoon and then let himcome over.’The modesty of the demand shook me. He had waitedfive years and bought a mansion where he dispensed star-light to casual moths so that he could ‘come over’ someafternoon to a stranger’s garden.‘Did I have to know all this before he could ask such alittle thing?’‘He’s afraid. He’s waited so long. He thought you mightbe offended. You see he’s a regular tough underneath it all.’Something worried me.‘Why didn’t he ask you to arrange a meeting?’‘He wants her to see his house,’ she explained. ‘And yourhouse is right next door.’‘Oh!’‘I think he half expected her to wander into one of hisparties, some night,’ went on Jordan, ‘but she never did.Then he began asking people casually if they knew her, andI was the first one he found. It was that night he sent for meat his dance, and you should have heard the elaborate wayhe worked up to it. Of course, I immediately suggested aluncheon in New York—and I thought he’d go mad:Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com’ ‘I don’t want to do anything out of the way!’ he kept say-ing. ‘I want to see her right next door.’‘When I said you were a particular friend of Tom’s hestarted to abandon the whole idea. He doesn’t know verymuch about Tom, though he says he’s read a Chicago paperfor years just on the chance of catching a glimpse of Daisy’sname.’It was dark now, and as we dipped under a little bridgeI put my arm around Jordan’s golden shoulder and drewher toward me and asked her to dinner. Suddenly I wasn’tthinking of Daisy and Gatsby any more but of this clean,hard, limited person who dealt in universal skepticism andwho leaned back jauntily just within the circle of my arm. Aphrase began to beat in my ears with a sort of heady excite-ment: ‘There are only the pursued, the pursuing, the busyand the tired.’‘And Daisy ought to have something in her life,’ mur-mured Jordan to me.‘Does she want to see Gatsby?’‘She’s not to know about it. Gatsby doesn’t want her toknow. You’re just supposed to invite her to tea.’We passed a barrier of dark trees, and then the facadeof Fifty-ninth Street, a block of delicate pale light, beameddown into the park. Unlike Gatsby and Tom Buchanan Ihad no girl whose disembodied face floated along the darkcornices and blinding signs and so I drew up the girl besideme, tightening my arms. Her wan, scornful mouth smiledand so I drew her up again, closer, this time to my face.The Great GatsbyChapter 5When I came home to West Egg that night I was afraidfor a moment that my house was on fire. Two o’clockand the whole corner of the peninsula was blazing with lightwhich fell unreal on the shrubbery and made thin elongat-ing glints upon the roadside wires. Turning a corner I sawthat it was Gatsby’s house, lit from tower to cellar.At first I thought it was another party, a wild rout thathad resolved itself into ‘hide-and-go-seek’ or ‘sardines-in-the-box’ with all the house thrown open to the game. Butthere wasn’t a sound. Only wind in the trees which blew thewires and made the lights go off and on again as if the househad winked into the darkness. As my taxi groaned away Isaw Gatsby walking toward me across his lawn.‘Your place looks like the world’s fair,’ I said.‘Does it?’ He turned his eyes toward it absently. ‘I havebeen glancing into some of the rooms. Let’s go to Coney Is-land, old sport. In my car.’‘It’s too late.’‘Well, suppose we take a plunge in the swimming pool? Ihaven’t made use of it all summer.’‘I’ve got to go to bed.’‘All right.’He waited, looking at me with suppressed eagerness.‘I talked with Miss Baker,’ I said after a moment. ‘I’m go-Free eBooks at Planet eBook.coming to call up Daisy tomorrow and invite her over here totea.’‘Oh, that’s all right,’ he said carelessly. ‘I don’t want to putyou to any trouble.’‘What day would suit you?’‘What day would suit YOU?’ he corrected me quickly. ‘Idon’t want to put you to any trouble, you see.’‘How about the day after tomorrow?’ He considered for amoment. Then, with reluctance:‘I want to get the grass cut,’ he said.We both looked at the grass—there was a sharp linewhere my ragged lawn ended and the darker, well-kept ex-panse of his began. I suspected that he meant my grass.‘There’s another little thing,’ he said uncertainly, andhesitated.‘Would you rather put it off for a few days?’ I asked.‘Oh, it isn’t about that. At least——’ He fumbled with aseries of beginnings. ‘Why, I thought—why, look here, oldsport, you don’t make much money, do you?’‘Not very much.’This seemed to reassure him and he continued moreconfidently.‘I thought you didn’t, if you’ll pardon my—you see,I carry on a little business on the side, a sort of sideline,you understand. And I thought that if you don’t make verymuch—You’re selling bonds, aren’t you, old sport?’‘Trying to.’‘Well, this would interest you. It wouldn’t take up muchof your time and you might pick up a nice bit of money. ItThe Great Gatsbyhappens to be a rather confidential sort of thing.’I realize now that under different circumstances thatconversation might have been one of the crises of my life.But, because the offer was obviously and tactlessly for a ser-vice to be rendered, I had no choice except to cut him offthere.‘I’ve got my hands full,’ I said. ‘I’m much obliged but Icouldn’t take on any more work.’‘You wouldn’t have to do any business with Wolfshiem.’Evidently he thought that I was shying away from the ‘gon-negtion’ mentioned at lunch, but I assured him he waswrong. He waited a moment longer, hoping I’d begin a con-versation, but I was too absorbed to be responsive, so hewent unwillingly home.The evening had made me light-headed and happy; Ithink I walked into a deep sleep as I entered my front door.So I didn’t know whether or not Gatsby went to Coney Is-land or for how many hours he ‘glanced into rooms’ whilehis house blazed gaudily on. I called up Daisy from the of-fice next morning and invited her to come to tea.‘Don’t bring Tom,’ I warned her.‘What?’‘Don’t bring Tom.’‘Who is ‘Tom’?’ she asked innocently.The day agreed upon was pouring rain. At eleven o’clocka man in a raincoat dragging a lawn-mower tapped at myfront door and said that Mr. Gatsby had sent him over tocut my grass. This reminded me that I had forgotten to tellmy Finn to come back so I drove into West Egg Village toFree eBooks at Planet eBook.comsearch for her among soggy white-washed alleys and to buysome cups and lemons and flowers.The flowers were unnecessary, for at two o’clock a green-house arrived from Gatsby’s, with innumerable receptaclesto contain it. An hour later the front door opened nervously,and Gatsby in a white flannel suit, silver shirt and gold-col-ored tie hurried in. He was pale and there were dark signs ofsleeplessness beneath his eyes.‘Is everything all right?’ he asked immediately.‘The grass looks fine, if that’s what you mean.’‘What grass?’ he inquired blankly. ‘Oh, the grass in theyard.’ He looked out the window at it, but judging from hisexpression I don’t believe he saw a thing.‘Looks very good,’ he remarked vaguely. ‘One of thepapers said they thought the rain would stop about four.I think it was ‘The Journal.’ Have you got everything youneed in the shape of—of tea?’I took him into the pantry where he looked a little re-proachfully at the Finn. Together we scrutinized the twelvelemon cakes from the delicatessen shop.‘Will they do?’ I asked.‘Of course, of course! They’re fine!’ and he added hol-lowly, ‘…old sport.’The rain cooled about half-past three to a damp mistthrough which occasional thin drops swam like dew. Gatsbylooked with vacant eyes through a copy of Clay’s ‘Econom-ics,’ starting at the Finnish tread that shook the kitchenfloor and peering toward the bleared windows from time totime as if a series of invisible but alarming happenings were0The Great Gatsbytaking place outside. Finally he got up and informed me inan uncertain voice that he was going home.‘Why’s that?’‘Nobody’s coming to tea. It’s too late!’ He looked at hiswatch as if there was some pressing demand on his timeelsewhere. ‘I can’t wait all day.’‘Don’t be silly; it’s just two minutes to four.’He sat down, miserably, as if I had pushed him, and si-multaneously there was the sound of a motor turning intomy lane. We both jumped up and, a little harrowed myself,I went out into the yard.Under the dripping bare lilac trees a large open car wascoming up the drive. It stopped. Daisy’s face, tipped side-ways beneath a three-cornered lavender hat, looked out atme with a bright ecstatic smile.‘Is this absolutely where you live, my dearest one?’The exhilarating ripple of her voice was a wild tonic inthe rain. I had to follow the sound of it for a moment, up anddown, with my ear alone before any words came through. Adamp streak of hair lay like a dash of blue paint across hercheek and her hand was wet with glistening drops as I tookit to help her from the car.‘Are you in love with me,’ she said low in my ear. ‘Or whydid I have to come alone?’‘That’s the secret of Castle Rackrent. Tell your chauffeurto go far away and spend an hour.’‘Come back in an hour, Ferdie.’ Then in a grave murmur,‘His name is Ferdie.’‘Does the gasoline affect his nose?’Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com1‘I don’t think so,’ she said innocently. ‘Why?’We went in. To my overwhelming surprise the livingroom was deserted.‘Well, that’s funny!’ I exclaimed.‘What’s funny?’She turned her head as there was a light, dignified knock-ing at the front door. I went out and opened it. Gatsby, paleas death, with his hands plunged like weights in his coatpockets, was standing in a puddle of water glaring tragi-cally into my eyes.With his hands still in his coat pockets he stalked by meinto the hall, turned sharply as if he were on a wire and dis-appeared into the living room. It wasn’t a bit funny. Awareof the loud beating of my own heart I pulled the door toagainst the increasing rain.For half a minute there wasn’t a sound. Then from theliving room I heard a sort of choking murmur and part of alaugh followed by Daisy’s voice on a clear artificial note.‘I certainly am awfully glad to see you again.’A pause; it endured horribly. I had nothing to do in thehall so I went into the room.Gatsby, his hands still in his pockets, was recliningagainst the mantelpiece in a strained counterfeit of perfectease, even of boredom. His head leaned back so far that itrested against the face of a defunct mantelpiece clock andfrom this position his distraught eyes stared down at Daisywho was sitting frightened but graceful on the edge of a stiffchair.‘We’ve met before,’ muttered Gatsby. His eyes glancedThe Great Gatsbymomentarily at me and his lips parted with an abortiveattempt at a laugh. Luckily the clock took this moment totilt dangerously at the pressure of his head, whereupon heturned and caught it with trembling fingers and set it backin place. Then he sat down, rigidly, his elbow on the arm ofthe sofa and his chin in his hand.‘I’m sorry about the clock,’ he said.My own face had now assumed a deep tropical burn. Icouldn’t muster up a single commonplace out of the thou-sand in my head.‘It’s an old clock,’ I told them idiotically.I think we all believed for a moment that it had smashedin pieces on the floor.‘We haven’t met for many years,’ said Daisy, her voice asmatter-of-fact as it could ever be.‘Five years next November.’The automatic quality of Gatsby’s answer set us all backat least another minute. I had them both on their feet withthe desperate suggestion that they help me make tea in thekitchen when the demoniac Finn brought it in on a tray.Amid the welcome confusion of cups and cakes a cer-tain physical decency established itself. Gatsby got himselfinto a shadow and while Daisy and I talked looked consci-entiously from one to the other of us with tense unhappyeyes. However, as calmness wasn’t an end in itself I made anexcuse at the first possible moment and got to my feet.‘Where are you going?’ demanded Gatsby in immediatealarm.‘I’ll be back.’Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com‘I’ve got to speak to you about something before you go.’He followed me wildly into the kitchen, closed the doorand whispered: ‘Oh, God!’ in a miserable way.‘What’s the matter?’‘This is a terrible mistake,’ he said, shaking his head fromside to side, ‘a terrible, terrible mistake.’‘You’re just embarrassed, that’s all,’ and luckily I added:‘Daisy’s embarrassed too.’‘She’s embarrassed?’ he repeated incredulously.‘Just as much as you are.’‘Don’t talk so loud.’‘You’re acting like a little boy,’ I broke out impatiently.‘Not only that but you’re rude. Daisy’s sitting in there allalone.’He raised his hand to stop my words, looked at me withunforgettable reproach and opening the door cautiouslywent back into the other room.I walked out the back way—just as Gatsby had when hehad made his nervous circuit of the house half an hour be-fore—and ran for a huge black knotted tree whose massedleaves made a fabric against the rain. Once more it waspouring and my irregular lawn, well-shaved by Gatsby’sgardener, abounded in small muddy swamps and prehis-toric marshes. There was nothing to look at from underthe tree except Gatsby’s enormous house, so I stared at it,like Kant at his church steeple, for half an hour. A brewerhad built it early in the ‘period’ craze, a decade before, andthere was a story that he’d agreed to pay five years’ taxeson all the neighboring cottages if the owners would haveThe Great Gatsbytheir roofs thatched with straw. Perhaps their refusal tookthe heart out of his plan to Found a Family—he went intoan immediate decline. His children sold his house with theblack wreath still on the door. Americans, while occasion-ally willing to be serfs, have always been obstinate aboutbeing peasantry.After half an hour the sun shone again and the grocer’sautomobile rounded Gatsby’s drive with the raw materialfor his servants’ dinner—I felt sure he wouldn’t eat a spoon-ful. A maid began opening the upper windows of his house,appeared momentarily in each, and, leaning from a largecentral bay, spat meditatively into the garden. It was time Iwent back. While the rain continued it had seemed like themurmur of their voices, rising and swelling a little, now andthe, with gusts of emotion. But in the new silence I felt thatsilence had fallen within the house too.I went in—after making every possible noise in the kitch-en short of pushing over the stove—but I don’t believe theyheard a sound. They were sitting at either end of the couchlooking at each other as if some question had been askedor was in the air, and every vestige of embarrassment wasgone. Daisy’s face was smeared with tears and when I camein she jumped up and began wiping at it with her hand-kerchief before a mirror. But there was a change in Gatsbythat was simply confounding. He literally glowed; withouta word or a gesture of exultation a new well-being radiatedfrom him and filled the little room.‘Oh, hello, old sport,’ he said, as if he hadn’t seen mefor years. I thought for a moment he was going to shakeFree eBooks at Planet eBook.comhands.‘It’s stopped raining.’‘Has it?’ When he realized what I was talking about, thatthere were twinkle-bells of sunshine in the room, he smiledlike a weather man, like an ecstatic patron of recurrent light,and repeated the news to Daisy. ‘What do you think of that?It’s stopped raining.’‘I’m glad, Jay.’ Her throat, full of aching, grieving beauty,told only of her unexpected joy.‘I want you and Daisy to come over to my house,’ he said,‘I’d like to show her around.’‘You’re sure you want me to come?’‘Absolutely, old sport.’Daisy went upstairs to wash her face—too late I thoughtwith humiliation of my towels—while Gatsby and I waitedon the lawn.‘My house looks well, doesn’t it?’ he demanded. ‘See howthe whole front of it catches the light.’I agreed that it was splendid.‘Yes.’ His eyes went over it, every arched door and squaretower. ‘It took me just three years to earn the money thatbought it.’‘I thought you inherited your money.’‘I did, old sport,’ he said automatically, ‘but I lost most ofit in the big panic—the panic of the war.’I think he hardly knew what he was saying, for when Iasked him what business he was in he answered ‘That’s myaffair,’ before he realized that it wasn’t the appropriate re-ply.The Great Gatsby‘Oh, I’ve been in several things,’ he corrected himself. ‘Iwas in the drug business and then I was in the oil business.But I’m not in either one now.’ He looked at me with moreattention. ‘Do you mean you’ve been thinking over what Iproposed the other night?’Before I could answer, Daisy came out of the house andtwo rows of brass buttons on her dress gleamed in the sun-light.‘That huge place THERE?’ she cried pointing.‘Do you like it?’‘I love it, but I don’t see how you live there all alone.’‘I keep it always full of interesting people, night and day.People who do interesting things. Celebrated people.’Instead of taking the short cut along the Sound we wentdown the road and entered by the big postern. With en-chanting murmurs Daisy admired this aspect or that of thefeudal silhouette against the sky, admired the gardens, thesparkling odor of jonquils and the frothy odor of hawthornand plum blossoms and the pale gold odor of kiss-me-at-the-gate. It was strange to reach the marble steps and findno stir of bright dresses in and out the door, and hear nosound but bird voices in the trees.And inside as we wandered through Marie Antoinettemusic rooms and Restoration salons I felt that there wereguests concealed behind every couch and table, under or-ders to be breathlessly silent until we had passed through.As Gatsby closed the door of ‘the Merton College Library’I could have sworn I heard the owl-eyed man break intoghostly laughter.Free eBooks at Planet eBook.comWe went upstairs, through period bedrooms swathed inrose and lavender silk and vivid with new flowers, throughdressing rooms and poolrooms, and bathrooms with sunk-en baths—intruding into one chamber where a dishevelledman in pajamas was doing liver exercises on the floor. Itwas Mr. Klipspringer, the ‘boarder.’ I had seen him wander-ing hungrily about the beach that morning. Finally we cameto Gatsby’s own apartment, a bedroom and a bath and anAdam study, where we sat down and drank a glass of someChartreuse he took from a cupboard in the wall.He hadn’t once ceased looking at Daisy and I think herevalued everything in his house according to the measureof response it drew from her well-loved eyes. Sometimes,too, he stared around at his possessions in a dazed way asthough in her actual and astounding presence none of itwas any longer real. Once he nearly toppled down a flightof stairs.His bedroom was the simplest room of all—except wherethe dresser was garnished with a toilet set of pure dull gold.Daisy took the brush with delight and smoothed her hair,whereupon Gatsby sat down and shaded his eyes and beganto laugh.‘It’s the funniest thing, old sport,’ he said hilariously. ‘Ican’t—when I try to——‘He had passed visibly through two states and was en-tering upon a third. After his embarrassment and hisunreasoning joy he was consumed with wonder at her pres-ence. He had been full of the idea so long, dreamed it rightthrough to the end, waited with his teeth set, so to speak, atThe Great Gatsbyan inconceivable pitch of intensity. Now, in the reaction, hewas running down like an overwound clock.Recovering himself in a minute he opened for us twohulking patent cabinets which held his massed suits anddressing-gowns and ties, and his shirts, piled like bricks instacks a dozen high.‘I’ve got a man in England who buys me clothes. He sendsover a selection of things at the beginning of each season,spring and fall.’He took out a pile of shirts and began throwing them, oneby one before us, shirts of sheer linen and thick silk and fineflannel which lost their folds as they fell and covered the ta-ble in many-colored disarray. While we admired he broughtmore and the soft rich heap mounted higher—shirts withstripes and scrolls and plaids in coral and apple-green andlavender and faint orange with monograms of Indian blue.Suddenly with a strained sound, Daisy bent her head intothe shirts and began to cry stormily.‘They’re such beautiful shirts,’ she sobbed, her voice muf-fled in the thick folds. ‘It makes me sad because I’ve neverseen such—such beautiful shirts before.’After the house, we were to see the grounds and theswimming pool, and the hydroplane and the midsummerflowers—but outside Gatsby’s window it began to rain againso we stood in a row looking at the corrugated surface ofthe Sound.‘If it wasn’t for the mist we could see your home acrossthe bay,’ said Gatsby. ‘You always have a green light thatburns all night at the end of your dock.’Free eBooks at Planet eBook.comDaisy put her arm through his abruptly but he seemedabsorbed in what he had just said. Possibly it had occurredto him that the colossal significance of that light had nowvanished forever. Compared to the great distance that hadseparated him from Daisy it had seemed very near to her,almost touching her. It had seemed as close as a star to themoon. Now it was again a green light on a dock. His countof enchanted objects had diminished by one.I began to walk about the room, examining various in-definite objects in the half darkness. A large photograph ofan elderly man in yachting costume attracted me, hung onthe wall over his desk.‘Who’s this?’‘That? That’s Mr. Dan Cody, old sport.’The name sounded faintly familiar.‘He’s dead now. He used to be my best friend years ago.’There was a small picture of Gatsby, also in yachting cos-tume, on the bureau—Gatsby with his head thrown backdefiantly—taken apparently when he was about eighteen.‘I adore it!’ exclaimed Daisy. ‘The pompadour! You nevertold me you had a pompadour—or a yacht.’‘Look at this,’ said Gatsby quickly. ‘Here’s a lot of clip-pings—about you.’They stood side by side examining it. I was going to askto see the rubies when the phone rang and Gatsby took upthe receiver.‘Yes…. Well, I can’t talk now…. I can’t talk now, oldsport…. I said a SMALL town…. He must know what asmall town is…. Well, he’s no use to us if Detroit is his idea100The Great Gatsbyof a small town….’He rang off.‘Come here QUICK!’ cried Daisy at the window.The rain was still falling, but the darkness had parted inthe west, and there was a pink and golden billow of foamyclouds above the sea.‘Look at that,’ she whispered, and then after a moment:‘I’d like to just get one of those pink clouds and put you in itand push you around.’I tried to go then, but they wouldn’t hear of it; perhapsmy presence made them feel more satisfactorily alone.‘I know what we’ll do,’ said Gatsby, ‘we’ll have Klip-springer play the piano.’He went out of the room calling ‘Ewing!’ and returnedin a few minutes accompanied by an embarrassed, slight-ly worn young man with shell-rimmed glasses and scantyblonde hair. He was now decently clothed in a ‘sport shirt’open at the neck, sneakers and duck trousers of a nebuloushue.‘Did we interrupt your exercises?’ inquired Daisy polite-ly. ‘I was asleep,’ cried Mr. Klipspringer, in a spasm of em-barrassment. ‘That is, I’d BEEN asleep. Then I got up….’‘Klipspringer plays the piano,’ said Gatsby, cutting himoff. ‘Don’t you, Ewing, old sport?’‘I don’t play well. I don’t—I hardly play at all. I’m all outof prac——‘‘We’ll go downstairs,’ interrupted Gatsby. He flipped aswitch. The grey windows disappeared as the house glowedFree eBooks at Planet eBook.com101full of light.In the music room Gatsby turned on a solitary lampbeside the piano. He lit Daisy’s cigarette from a tremblingmatch, and sat down with her on a couch far across theroom where there was no light save what the gleaming floorbounced in from the hall.When Klipspringer had played ‘The Love Nest’ he turnedaround on the bench and searched unhappily for Gatsby inthe gloom.‘I’m all out of practice, you see. I told you I couldn’t play.I’m all out of prac——‘‘Don’t talk so much, old sport,’ commanded Gatsby.‘Play!’IN THE MORNING,IN THE EVENING,AIN’T WE GOT FUN——Outside the wind was loud and there was a faint flowof thunder along the Sound. All the lights were going onin West Egg now; the electric trains, men-carrying, wereplunging home through the rain from New York. It was thehour of a profound human change, and excitement was gen-erating on the air.ONE THING’S SURE AND NOTHING’S SURERTHE RICH GET RICHER AND THE POOR GET—CHILDREN.IN THE MEANTIME,10The Great GatsbyIN BETWEEN TIME——As I went over to say goodbye I saw that the expression ofbewilderment had come back into Gatsby’s face, as thougha faint doubt had occurred to him as to the quality of hispresent happiness. Almost five years! There must have beenmoments even that afternoon when Daisy tumbled shortof his dreams—not through her own fault but because ofthe colossal vitality of his illusion. It had gone beyond her,beyond everything. He had thrown himself into it with acreative passion, adding to it all the time, decking it outwith every bright feather that drifted his way. No amountof fire or freshness can challenge what a man will store upin his ghostly heart.As I watched him he adjusted himself a little, visibly.His hand took hold of hers and as she said something lowin his ear he turned toward her with a rush of emotion. Ithink that voice held him most with its fluctuating, feverishwarmth because it couldn’t be over-dreamed—that voicewas a deathless song.They had forgotten me, but Daisy glanced up and heldout her hand; Gatsby didn’t know me now at all. I lookedonce more at them and they looked back at me, remotely,possessed by intense life. Then I went out of the room anddown the marble steps into the rain, leaving them there to-gether.Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com10Chapter 6About this time an ambitious young reporter from NewYork arrived one morning at Gatsby’s door and askedhim if he had anything to say.‘Anything to say about what?’ inquired Gatsby politely.‘Why,—any statement to give out.’It transpired after a confused five minutes that the manhad heard Gatsby’s name around his office in a connectionwhich he either wouldn’t reveal or didn’t fully understand.This was his day off and with laudable initiative he had hur-ried out ‘to see.’It was a random shot, and yet the reporter’s instinct wasright. Gatsby’s notoriety, spread about by the hundreds whohad accepted his hospitality and so become authorities onhis past, had increased all summer until he fell just shortof being news. Contemporary legends such as the ‘under-ground pipe-line to Canada’ attached themselves to him,and there was one persistent story that he didn’t live in ahouse at all, but in a boat that looked like a house and wasmoved secretly up and down the Long Island shore. Justwhy these inventions were a source of satisfaction to JamesGatz of North Dakota, isn’t easy to say.James Gatz—that was really, or at least legally, his name.He had changed it at the age of seventeen and at the specificmoment that witnessed the beginning of his career—when10The Great Gatsbyhe saw Dan Cody’s yacht drop anchor over the most insidi-ous flat on Lake Superior. It was James Gatz who had beenloafing along the beach that afternoon in a torn green jer-sey and a pair of canvas pants, but it was already Jay Gatsbywho borrowed a row-boat, pulled out to the TUOLOMEEand informed Cody that a wind might catch him and breakhim up in half an hour.I suppose he’d had the name ready for a long time, eventhen. His parents were shiftless and unsuccessful farm peo-ple—his imagination had never really accepted them ashis parents at all. The truth was that Jay Gatsby, of WestEgg, Long Island, sprang from his Platonic conception ofhimself. He was a son of God—a phrase which, if it meansanything, means just that—and he must be about HisFather’s Business, the service of a vast, vulgar and meretri-cious beauty. So he invented just the sort of Jay Gatsby thata seventeen-year-old boy would be likely to invent, and tothis conception he was faithful to the end.For over a year he had been beating his way along thesouth shore of Lake Superior as a clam digger and a salmonfisher or in any other capacity that brought him food andbed. His brown, hardening body lived naturally throughthe half fierce, half lazy work of the bracing days. He knewwomen early and since they spoiled him he became con-temptuous of them, of young virgins because they wereignorant, of the others because they were hysterical aboutthings which in his overwhelming self-absorption he tookfor granted.But his heart was in a constant, turbulent riot. The mostFree eBooks at Planet eBook.com10grotesque and fantastic conceits haunted him in his bed atnight. A universe of ineffable gaudiness spun itself out inhis brain while the clock ticked on the wash-stand and themoon soaked with wet light his tangled clothes upon thefloor. Each night he added to the pattern of his fancies un-til drowsiness closed down upon some vivid scene with anoblivious embrace. For a while these reveries provided anoutlet for his imagination; they were a satisfactory hint ofthe unreality of reality, a promise that the rock of the worldwas founded securely on a fairy’s wing.An instinct toward his future glory had led him, somemonths before, to the small Lutheran college of St. Olaf insouthern Minnesota. He stayed there two weeks, dismayedat its ferocious indifference to the drums of his destiny, todestiny itself, and despising the janitor’s work with whichhe was to pay his way through. Then he drifted back to LakeSuperior, and he was still searching for something to do onthe day that Dan Cody’s yacht dropped anchor in the shal-lows along shore.Cody was fifty years old then, a product of the Nevadasilver fields, of the Yukon, of every rush for metal since Sev-enty-five. The transactions in Montana copper that madehim many times a millionaire found him physically robustbut on the verge of soft-mindedness, and, suspecting thisan infinite number of women tried to separate him fromhis money. The none too savory ramifications by which EllaKaye, the newspaper woman, played Madame de Main-tenon to his weakness and sent him to sea in a yacht, werecommon knowledge to the turgid journalism of 1902. He10The Great Gatsbyhad been coasting along all too hospitable shores for fiveyears when he turned up as James Gatz’s destiny at LittleGirl Bay.To the young Gatz, resting on his oars and looking upat the railed deck, the yacht represented all the beauty andglamor in the world. I suppose he smiled at Cody—he hadprobably discovered that people liked him when he smiled.At any rate Cody asked him a few questions (one of themelicited the brand new name) and found that he was quick,and extravagantly ambitious. A few days later he took himto Duluth and bought him a blue coat, six pair of white ducktrousers and a yachting cap. And when the TUOLOMEEleft for the West Indies and the Barbary Coast Gatsby lefttoo.He was employed in a vague personal capacity—whilehe remained with Cody he was in turn steward, mate, skip-per, secretary, and even jailor, for Dan Cody sober knewwhat lavish doings Dan Cody drunk might soon be aboutand he provided for such contingencies by reposing moreand more trust in Gatsby. The arrangement lasted five yearsduring which the boat went three times around the con-tinent. It might have lasted indefinitely except for the factthat Ella Kaye came on board one night in Boston and aweek later Dan Cody inhospitably died.I remember the portrait of him up in Gatsby’s bedroom,a grey, florid man with a hard empty face—the pioneer de-bauchee who during one phase of American life broughtback to the eastern seaboard the savage violence of the fron-tier brothel and saloon. It was indirectly due to Cody thatFree eBooks at Planet eBook.com10Gatsby drank so little. Sometimes in the course of gay par-ties women used to rub champagne into his hair; for himselfhe formed the habit of letting liquor alone.And it was from Cody that he inherited money—a legacyof twenty-five thousand dollars. He didn’t get it. He nev-er understood the legal device that was used against himbut what remained of the millions went intact to Ella Kaye.He was left with his singularly appropriate education; thevague contour of Jay Gatsby had filled out to the substanti-ality of a man.He told me all this very much later, but I’ve put it downhere with the idea of exploding those first wild rumors abouthis antecedents, which weren’t even faintly true. Moreoverhe told it to me at a time of confusion, when I had reachedthe point of believing everything and nothing about him.So I take advantage of this short halt, while Gatsby, so tospeak, caught his breath, to clear this set of misconceptionsaway.It was a halt, too, in my association with his affairs.For several weeks I didn’t see him or hear his voice on thephone—mostly I was in New York, trotting around withJordan and trying to ingratiate myself with her senile aunt—but finally I went over to his house one Sunday afternoon.I hadn’t been there two minutes when somebody broughtTom Buchanan in for a drink. I was startled, naturally, butthe really surprising thing was that it hadn’t happened be-fore.They were a party of three on horseback—Tom and aman named Sloane and a pretty woman in a brown riding10The Great Gatsbyhabit who had been there previously.‘I’m delighted to see you,’ said Gatsby standing on hisporch. ‘I’m delighted that you dropped in.’As though they cared!‘Sit right down. Have a cigarette or a cigar.’ He walkedaround the room quickly, ringing bells. ‘I’ll have somethingto drink for you in just a minute.’He was profoundly affected by the fact that Tom wasthere. But he would be uneasy anyhow until he had giventhem something, realizing in a vague way that that was allthey came for. Mr. Sloane wanted nothing. A lemonade?No, thanks. A little champagne? Nothing at all, thanks….I’m sorry——‘Did you have a nice ride?’‘Very good roads around here.’‘I suppose the automobiles——‘‘Yeah.’Moved by an irresistible impulse, Gatsby turned to Tomwho had accepted the introduction as a stranger.‘I believe we’ve met somewhere before, Mr. Buchanan.’‘Oh, yes,’ said Tom, gruffly polite but obviously not re-membering. ‘So we did. I remember very well.’‘About two weeks ago.’‘That’s right. You were with Nick here.’‘I know your wife,’ continued Gatsby, almost aggressive-ly. ‘That so?’Tom turned to me.‘You live near here, Nick?’Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com10‘Next door.’‘That so?’Mr. Sloane didn’t enter into the conversation but loungedback haughtily in his chair; the woman said nothing ei-ther—until unexpectedly, after two highballs, she becamecordial.‘We’ll all come over to your next party, Mr. Gatsby,’ shesuggested. ‘What do you say?’‘Certainly. I’d be delighted to have you.’‘Be ver’ nice,’ said Mr. Sloane, without gratitude. ‘Well—think ought to be starting home.’‘Please don’t hurry,’ Gatsby urged them. He had controlof himself now and he wanted to see more of Tom. ‘Whydon’t you—why don’t you stay for supper? I wouldn’t be sur-prised if some other people dropped in from New York.’‘You come to supper with ME,’ said the lady enthusiasti-cally. ‘Both of you.’This included me. Mr. Sloane got to his feet.‘Come along,’ he said—but to her only.‘I mean it,’ she insisted. ‘I’d love to have you. Lots ofroom.’Gatsby looked at me questioningly. He wanted to go andhe didn’t see that Mr. Sloane had determined he shouldn’t.‘I’m afraid I won’t be able to,’ I said.‘Well, you come,’ she urged, concentrating on Gatsby.Mr. Sloane murmured something close to her ear.‘We won’t be late if we start now,’ she insisted aloud.‘I haven’t got a horse,’ said Gatsby. ‘I used to ride in thearmy but I’ve never bought a horse. I’ll have to follow you in110The Great Gatsbymy car. Excuse me for just a minute.’The rest of us walked out on the porch, where Sloane andthe lady began an impassioned conversation aside.‘My God, I believe the man’s coming,’ said Tom. ‘Doesn’the know she doesn’t want him?’‘She says she does want him.’‘She has a big dinner party and he won’t know a soulthere.’ He frowned. ‘I wonder where in the devil he met Dai-sy. By God, I may be old-fashioned in my ideas, but womenrun around too much these days to suit me. They meet allkinds of crazy fish.’Suddenly Mr. Sloane and the lady walked down the stepsand mounted their horses.‘Come on,’ said Mr. Sloane to Tom, ‘we’re late. We’vegot to go.’ And then to me: ‘Tell him we couldn’t wait, willyou?’Tom and I shook hands, the rest of us exchanged a coolnod and they trotted quickly down the drive, disappearingunder the August foliage just as Gatsby with hat and lightovercoat in hand came out the front door.Tom was evidently perturbed at Daisy’s running aroundalone, for on the following Saturday night he came with herto Gatsby’s party. Perhaps his presence gave the eveningits peculiar quality of oppressiveness—it stands out in mymemory from Gatsby’s other parties that summer. Therewere the same people, or at least the same sort of people,the same profusion of champagne, the same many-colored,many-keyed commotion, but I felt an unpleasantness in theair, a pervading harshness that hadn’t been there before.Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com111Or perhaps I had merely grown used to it, grown to acceptWest Egg as a world complete in itself, with its own stan-dards and its own great figures, second to nothing becauseit had no consciousness of being so, and now I was lookingat it again, through Daisy’s eyes. It is invariably saddeningto look through new eyes at things upon which you have ex-pended your own powers of adjustment.They arrived at twilight and as we strolled out among thesparkling hundreds Daisy’s voice was playing murmuroustricks in her throat.‘These things excite me SO,’ she whispered. ‘If you wantto kiss me any time during the evening, Nick, just let meknow and I’ll be glad to arrange it for you. Just mention myname. Or present a green card. I’m giving out green——‘‘Look around,’ suggested Gatsby.‘I’m looking around. I’m having a marvelous——‘‘You must see the faces of many people you’ve heardabout.’Tom’s arrogant eyes roamed the crowd.‘We don’t go around very much,’ he said. ‘In fact I wasjust thinking I don’t know a soul here.’‘Perhaps you know that lady.’ Gatsby indicated a gor-geous, scarcely human orchid of a woman who sat in stateunder a white plum tree. Tom and Daisy stared, with thatpeculiarly unreal feeling that accompanies the recognitionof a hitherto ghostly celebrity of the movies.‘She’s lovely,’ said Daisy.‘The man bending over her is her director.’He took them ceremoniously from group to group:11The Great Gatsby‘Mrs. Buchanan … and Mr. Buchanan——’ After an in-stant’s hesitation he added: ‘the polo player.’‘Oh no,’ objected Tom quickly, ‘Not me.’But evidently the sound of it pleased Gatsby for Tom re-mained ‘the polo player’ for the rest of the evening.‘I’ve never met so many celebrities!’ Daisy exclaimed. ‘Iliked that man—what was his name?—with the sort of bluenose.’Gatsby identified him, adding that he was a small pro-ducer.‘Well, I liked him anyhow.’‘I’d a little rather not be the polo player,’ said Tom pleas-antly, ‘I’d rather look at all these famous people in—inoblivion.’Daisy and Gatsby danced. I remember being surprisedby his graceful, conservative fox-trot—I had never seen himdance before. Then they sauntered over to my house and saton the steps for half an hour while at her request I remainedwatchfully in the garden: ‘In case there’s a fire or a flood,’she explained, ‘or any act of God.’Tom appeared from his oblivion as we were sitting downto supper together. ‘Do you mind if I eat with some peopleover here?’ he said. ‘A fellow’s getting off some funny stuff.’‘Go ahead,’ answered Daisy genially, ‘And if you wantto take down any addresses here’s my little gold pencil….’She looked around after a moment and told me the girl was‘common but pretty,’ and I knew that except for the halfhour she’d been alone with Gatsby she wasn’t having a goodtime.Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com11We were at a particularly tipsy table. That was my fault—Gatsby had been called to the phone and I’d enjoyed thesesame people only two weeks before. But what had amusedme then turned septic on the air now.‘How do you feel, Miss Baedeker?’The girl addressed was trying, unsuccessfully, to slumpagainst my shoulder. At this inquiry she sat up and openedher eyes.‘Wha?’A massive and lethargic woman, who had been urgingDaisy to play golf with her at the local club tomorrow, spokein Miss Baedeker’s defence:‘Oh, she’s all right now. When she’s had five or six cock-tails she always starts screaming like that. I tell her sheought to leave it alone.’‘I do leave it alone,’ affirmed the accused hollowly.‘We heard you yelling, so I said to Doc Civet here: ‘There’ssomebody that needs your help, Doc.’ ‘‘She’s much obliged, I’m sure,’ said another friend, with-out gratitude. ‘But you got her dress all wet when you stuckher head in the pool.’‘Anything I hate is to get my head stuck in a pool,’ mum-bled Miss Baedeker. ‘They almost drowned me once over inNew Jersey.’‘Then you ought to leave it alone,’ countered Doctor Civ-et. ‘Speak for yourself!’ cried Miss Baedeker violently. ‘Yourhand shakes. I wouldn’t let you operate on me!’It was like that. Almost the last thing I remember was11The Great Gatsbystanding with Daisy and watching the moving picture di-rector and his Star. They were still under the white plumtree and their faces were touching except for a pale thin rayof moonlight between. It occurred to me that he had beenvery slowly bending toward her all evening to attain thisproximity, and even while I watched I saw him stoop oneultimate degree and kiss at her cheek.‘I like her,’ said Daisy, ‘I think she’s lovely.’But the rest offended her—and inarguably, because itwasn’t a gesture but an emotion. She was appalled by WestEgg, this unprecedented ‘place’ that Broadway had begot-ten upon a Long Island fishing village—appalled by its rawvigor that chafed under the old euphemisms and by the tooobtrusive fate that herded its inhabitants along a short cutfrom nothing to nothing. She saw something awful in thevery simplicity she failed to understand.I sat on the front steps with them while they waited fortheir car. It was dark here in front: only the bright doorsent ten square feet of light volleying out into the soft blackmorning. Sometimes a shadow moved against a dressing-room blind above, gave way to another shadow, an indefiniteprocession of shadows, who rouged and powdered in an in-visible glass.‘Who is this Gatsby anyhow?’ demanded Tom suddenly.‘Some big bootlegger?’‘Where’d you hear that?’ I inquired.‘I didn’t hear it. I imagined it. A lot of these newly richpeople are just big bootleggers, you know.’‘Not Gatsby,’ I said shortly.Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com11He was silent for a moment. The pebbles of the drivecrunched under his feet.‘Well, he certainly must have strained himself to get thismenagerie together.’A breeze stirred the grey haze of Daisy’s fur collar.‘At least they’re more interesting than the people weknow,’ she said with an effort.‘You didn’t look so interested.’‘Well, I was.’Tom laughed and turned to me.‘Did you notice Daisy’s face when that girl asked her toput her under a cold shower?’Daisy began to sing with the music in a husky, rhyth-mic whisper, bringing out a meaning in each word that ithad never had before and would never have again. Whenthe melody rose, her voice broke up sweetly, following it, ina way contralto voices have, and each change tipped out alittle of her warm human magic upon the air.‘Lots of people come who haven’t been invited,’ she saidsuddenly. ‘That girl hadn’t been invited. They simply forcetheir way in and he’s too polite to object.’‘I’d like to know who he is and what he does,’ insistedTom. ‘And I think I’ll make a point of finding out.’‘I can tell you right now,’ she answered. ‘He owned somedrug stores, a lot of drug stores. He built them up himself.’The dilatory limousine came rolling up the drive.‘Good night, Nick,’ said Daisy.Her glance left me and sought the lighted top of the stepswhere ‘Three o’Clock in the Morning,’ a neat, sad little waltz11The Great Gatsbyof that year, was drifting out the open door. After all, in thevery casualness of Gatsby’s party there were romantic pos-sibilities totally absent from her world. What was it up therein the song that seemed to be calling her back inside? Whatwould happen now in the dim incalculable hours? Perhapssome unbelievable guest would arrive, a person infinite-ly rare and to be marvelled at, some authentically radiantyoung girl who with one fresh glance at Gatsby, one mo-ment of magical encounter, would blot out those five yearsof unwavering devotion.I stayed late that night. Gatsby asked me to wait until hewas free and I lingered in the garden until the inevitableswimming party had run up, chilled and exalted, from theblack beach, until the lights were extinguished in the guestrooms overhead. When he came down the steps at last thetanned skin was drawn unusually tight on his face, and hiseyes were bright and tired.‘She didn’t like it,’ he said immediately.‘Of course she did.’‘She didn’t like it,’ he insisted. ‘She didn’t have a goodtime.’He was silent and I guessed at his unutterable depres-sion.‘I feel far away from her,’ he said. ‘It’s hard to make herunderstand.’‘You mean about the dance?’‘The dance?’ He dismissed all the dances he had givenwith a snap of his fingers. ‘Old sport, the dance is unim-portant.’Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com11He wanted nothing less of Daisy than that she should goto Tom and say: ‘I never loved you.’ After she had obliter-ated three years with that sentence they could decide uponthe more practical measures to be taken. One of them wasthat, after she was free, they were to go back to Louisvilleand be married from her house—just as if it were five yearsago.‘And she doesn’t understand,’ he said. ‘She used to beable to understand. We’d sit for hours——‘He broke off and began to walk up and down a desolatepath of fruit rinds and discarded favors and crushed flow-ers.‘I wouldn’t ask too much of her,’ I ventured. ‘You can’trepeat the past.’‘Can’t repeat the past?’ he cried incredulously. ‘Why ofcourse you can!’He looked around him wildly, as if the past were lurk-ing here in the shadow of his house, just out of reach of hishand.‘I’m going to fix everything just the way it was before,’ hesaid, nodding determinedly. ‘She’ll see.’He talked a lot about the past and I gathered that hewanted to recover something, some idea of himself perhaps,that had gone into loving Daisy. His life had been confusedand disordered since then, but if he could once return to acertain starting place and go over it all slowly, he could findout what that thing was….… One autumn night, five years before, they had beenwalking down the street when the leaves were falling, and11The Great Gatsbythey came to a place where there were no trees and the side-walk was white with moonlight. They stopped here andturned toward each other. Now it was a cool night with thatmysterious excitement in it which comes at the two changesof the year. The quiet lights in the houses were hummingout into the darkness and there was a stir and bustle amongthe stars. Out of the corner of his eye Gatsby saw that theblocks of the sidewalk really formed a ladder and mountedto a secret place above the trees—he could climb to it, if heclimbed alone, and once there he could suck on the pap oflife, gulp down the incomparable milk of wonder.His heart beat faster and faster as Daisy’s white face cameup to his own. He knew that when he kissed this girl, andforever wed his unutterable visions to her perishable breath,his mind would never romp again like the mind of God. Sohe waited, listening for a moment longer to the tuning forkthat had been struck upon a star. Then he kissed her. At hislips’ touch she blossomed for him like a flower and the in-carnation was complete.Through all he said, even through his appalling sen-timentality, I was reminded of something—an elusiverhythm, a fragment of lost words, that I had heard some-where a long time ago. For a moment a phrase tried to takeshape in my mouth and my lips parted like a dumb man’s, asthough there was more struggling upon them than a wisp ofstartled air. But they made no sound and what I had almostremembered was uncommunicable forever.Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com11Chapter 7It was when curiosity about Gatsby was at its highestthat the lights in his house failed to go on one Saturdaynight—and, as obscurely as it had begun, his career as Tri-malchio was over.Only gradually did I become aware that the automobileswhich turned expectantly into his drive stayed for just aminute and then drove sulkily away. Wondering if he weresick I went over to find out—an unfamiliar butler with a vil-lainous face squinted at me suspiciously from the door.‘Is Mr. Gatsby sick?’‘Nope.’ After a pause he added ‘sir’ in a dilatory, grudg-ing way.‘I hadn’t seen him around, and I was rather worried. Tellhim Mr. Carraway came over.’‘Who?’ he demanded rudely.‘Carraway.’‘Carraway. All right, I’ll tell him.’ Abruptly he slammedthe door.My Finn informed me that Gatsby had dismissed everyservant in his house a week ago and replaced them withhalf a dozen others, who never went into West Egg Villageto be bribed by the tradesmen, but ordered moderate sup-plies over the telephone. The grocery boy reported that thekitchen looked like a pigsty, and the general opinion in the10The Great Gatsbyvillage was that the new people weren’t servants at all.Next day Gatsby called me on the phone.‘Going away?’ I inquired.‘No, old sport.’‘I hear you fired all your servants.’‘I wanted somebody who wouldn’t gossip. Daisy comesover quite often—in the afternoons.’So the whole caravansary had fallen in like a card houseat the disapproval in her eyes.‘They’re some people Wolfshiem wanted to do some-thing for. They’re all brothers and sisters. They used to runa small hotel.’‘I see.’He was calling up at Daisy’s request—would I come tolunch at her house tomorrow? Miss Baker would be there.Half an hour later Daisy herself telephoned and seemed re-lieved to find that I was coming. Something was up. Andyet I couldn’t believe that they would choose this occasionfor a scene—especially for the rather harrowing scene thatGatsby had outlined in the garden.The next day was broiling, almost the last, certainly thewarmest, of the summer. As my train emerged from thetunnel into sunlight, only the hot whistles of the NationalBiscuit Company broke the simmering hush at noon. Thestraw seats of the car hovered on the edge of combustion;the woman next to me perspired delicately for a while intoher white shirtwaist, and then, as her newspaper dampenedunder her fingers, lapsed despairingly into deep heat with adesolate cry. Her pocket-book slapped to the floor.Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com11‘Oh, my!’ she gasped.I picked it up with a weary bend and handed it back toher, holding it at arm’s length and by the extreme tip of thecorners to indicate that I had no designs upon it—but ev-ery one near by, including the woman, suspected me justthe same.‘Hot!’ said the conductor to familiar faces. ‘Some weath-er! Hot! Hot! Hot! Is it hot enough for you? Is it hot? Is it… ?’My commutation ticket came back to me with a darkstain from his hand. That any one should care in this heatwhose flushed lips he kissed, whose head made damp thepajama pocket over his heart!… Through the hall of the Buchanans’ house blew a faintwind, carrying the sound of the telephone bell out to Gatsbyand me as we waited at the door.‘The master’s body!’ roared the butler into the mouth-piece. ‘I’m sorry, madame, but we can’t furnish it—it’s fartoo hot to touch this noon!’What he really said was: ‘Yes … yes … I’ll see.’He set down the receiver and came toward us, glisteningslightly, to take our stiff straw hats.‘Madame expects you in the salon!’ he cried, needless-ly indicating the direction. In this heat every extra gesturewas an affront to the common store of life.The room, shadowed well with awnings, was dark andcool. Daisy and Jordan lay upon an enormous couch, likesilver idols, weighing down their own white dresses againstthe singing breeze of the fans.1The Great Gatsby‘We can’t move,’ they said together.Jordan’s fingers, powdered white over their tan, restedfor a moment in mine.‘And Mr. Thomas Buchanan, the athlete?’ I inquired.Simultaneously I heard his voice, gruff, muffled, husky,at the hall telephone.Gatsby stood in the center of the crimson carpet andgazed around with fascinated eyes. Daisy watched him andlaughed, her sweet, exciting laugh; a tiny gust of powderrose from her bosom into the air.‘The rumor is,’ whispered Jordan, ‘that that’s Tom’s girlon the telephone.’We were silent. The voice in the hall rose high with an-noyance. ‘Very well, then, I won’t sell you the car at all….I’m under no obligations to you at all…. And as for yourbothering me about it at lunch time I won’t stand that atall!’‘Holding down the receiver,’ said Daisy cynically.‘No, he’s not,’ I assured her. ‘It’s a bona fide deal. I happento know about it.’Tom flung open the door, blocked out its space for a mo-ment with his thick body, and hurried into the room.‘Mr. Gatsby!’ He put out his broad, flat hand with well-concealed dislike. ‘I’m glad to see you, sir…. Nick….’‘Make us a cold drink,’ cried Daisy.As he left the room again she got up and went overto Gatsby and pulled his face down kissing him on themouth.‘You know I love you,’ she murmured.Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com1‘You forget there’s a lady present,’ said Jordan.Daisy looked around doubtfully.‘You kiss Nick too.’‘What a low, vulgar girl!’‘I don’t care!’ cried Daisy and began to clog on the brickfireplace. Then she remembered the heat and sat down guilt-ily on the couch just as a freshly laundered nurse leading alittle girl came into the room.‘Bles-sed pre-cious,’ she crooned, holding out her arms.‘Come to your own mother that loves you.’The child, relinquished by the nurse, rushed across theroom and rooted shyly into her mother’s dress.‘The Bles-sed pre-cious! Did mother get powder on yourold yellowy hair? Stand up now, and say How-de-do.’Gatsby and I in turn leaned down and took the small re-luctant hand. Afterward he kept looking at the child withsurprise. I don’t think he had ever really believed in its ex-istence before.‘I got dressed before luncheon,’ said the child, turningeagerly to Daisy.‘That’s because your mother wanted to show you off.’ Herface bent into the single wrinkle of the small white neck.‘You dream, you. You absolute little dream.’‘Yes,’ admitted the child calmly. ‘Aunt Jordan’s got on awhite dress too.’‘How do you like mother’s friends?’ Daisy turned heraround so that she faced Gatsby. ‘Do you think they’re pret-ty?’‘Where’s Daddy?’1The Great Gatsby‘She doesn’t look like her father,’ explained Daisy. ‘Shelooks like me. She’s got my hair and shape of the face.’Daisy sat back upon the couch. The nurse took a step for-ward and held out her hand.‘Come, Pammy.’‘Goodbye, sweetheart!’With a reluctant backward glance the well-disciplinedchild held to her nurse’s hand and was pulled out the door,just as Tom came back, preceding four gin rickeys thatclicked full of ice.Gatsby took up his drink.‘They certainly look cool,’ he said, with visible tension.We drank in long greedy swallows.‘I read somewhere that the sun’s getting hotter ev-ery year,’ said Tom genially. ‘It seems that pretty soon theearth’s going to fall into the sun—or wait a minute—it’s justthe opposite—the sun’s getting colder every year.‘Come outside,’ he suggested to Gatsby, ‘I’d like you tohave a look at the place.’I went with them out to the veranda. On the green Sound,stagnant in the heat, one small sail crawled slowly towardthe fresher sea. Gatsby’s eyes followed it momentarily; heraised his hand and pointed across the bay.‘I’m right across from you.’‘So you are.’Our eyes lifted over the rosebeds and the hot lawn andthe weedy refuse of the dog days along shore. Slowly thewhite wings of the boat moved against the blue cool limit ofthe sky. Ahead lay the scalloped ocean and the aboundingFree eBooks at Planet eBook.com1blessed isles.‘There’s sport for you,’ said Tom, nodding. ‘I’d like to beout there with him for about an hour.’We had luncheon in the dining-room, darkened, too,against the heat, and drank down nervous gayety with thecold ale.‘What’ll we do with ourselves this afternoon,’ cried Dai-sy, ‘and the day after that, and the next thirty years?’‘Don’t be morbid,’ Jordan said. ‘Life starts all over againwhen it gets crisp in the fall.’‘But it’s so hot,’ insisted Daisy, on the verge of tears, ‘Andeverything’s so confused. Let’s all go to town!’Her voice struggled on through the heat, beating againstit, moulding its senselessness into forms.‘I’ve heard of making a garage out of a stable,’ Tom wassaying to Gatsby, ‘but I’m the first man who ever made astable out of a garage.’‘Who wants to go to town?’ demanded Daisy insistently.Gatsby’s eyes floated toward her. ‘Ah,’ she cried, ‘you lookso cool.’Their eyes met, and they stared together at each other,alone in space. With an effort she glanced down at the ta-ble.‘You always look so cool,’ she repeated.She had told him that she loved him, and Tom Buchanansaw. He was astounded. His mouth opened a little and helooked at Gatsby and then back at Daisy as if he had just rec-ognized her as some one he knew a long time ago.‘You resemble the advertisement of the man,’ she went on1The Great Gatsbyinnocently. ‘You know the advertisement of the man——‘‘All right,’ broke in Tom quickly, ‘I’m perfectly willing togo to town. Come on—we’re all going to town.’He got up, his eyes still flashing between Gatsby and hiswife. No one moved.‘Come on!’ His temper cracked a little. ‘What’s the mat-ter, anyhow? If we’re going to town let’s start.’His hand, trembling with his effort at self control, boreto his lips the last of his glass of ale. Daisy’s voice got us toour feet and out on to the blazing gravel drive.‘Are we just going to go?’ she objected. ‘Like this? Aren’twe going to let any one smoke a cigarette first?’‘Everybody smoked all through lunch.’‘Oh, let’s have fun,’ she begged him. ‘It’s too hot to fuss.’He didn’t answer.‘Have it your own way,’ she said. ‘Come on, Jordan.’They went upstairs to get ready while we three men stoodthere shuffling the hot pebbles with our feet. A silver curveof the moon hovered already in the western sky. Gatsbystarted to speak, changed his mind, but not before Tomwheeled and faced him expectantly.‘Have you got your stables here?’ asked Gatsby with aneffort.‘About a quarter of a mile down the road.’‘Oh.’A pause.‘I don’t see the idea of going to town,’ broke out Tom sav-agely. ‘Women get these notions in their heads——‘‘Shall we take anything to drink?’ called Daisy from anFree eBooks at Planet eBook.com1upper window.‘I’ll get some whiskey,’ answered Tom. He went inside.Gatsby turned to me rigidly:‘I can’t say anything in his house, old sport.’‘She’s got an indiscreet voice,’ I remarked. ‘It’s full of——‘I hesitated.‘Her voice is full of money,’ he said suddenly.That was it. I’d never understood before. It was full ofmoney—that was the inexhaustible charm that rose and fellin it, the jingle of it, the cymbals’ song of it…. High in awhite palace the king’s daughter, the golden girl….Tom came out of the house wrapping a quart bottle ina towel, followed by Daisy and Jordan wearing small tighthats of metallic cloth and carrying light capes over theirarms.‘Shall we all go in my car?’ suggested Gatsby. He felt thehot, green leather of the seat. ‘I ought to have left it in theshade.’‘Is it standard shift?’ demanded Tom.‘Yes.’‘Well, you take my coupe and let me drive your car totown.’The suggestion was distasteful to Gatsby.‘I don’t think there’s much gas,’ he objected.‘Plenty of gas,’ said Tom boisterously. He looked at thegauge. ‘And if it runs out I can stop at a drug store. You canbuy anything at a drug store nowadays.’A pause followed this apparently pointless remark. Dai-1The Great Gatsbysy looked at Tom frowning and an indefinable expression,at once definitely unfamiliar and vaguely recognizable, as ifI had only heard it described in words, passed over Gatsby’sface.‘Come on, Daisy,’ said Tom, pressing her with his handtoward Gatsby’s car. ‘I’ll take you in this circus wagon.’He opened the door but she moved out from the circleof his arm.‘You take Nick and Jordan. We’ll follow you in the cou-pe.’She walked close to Gatsby, touching his coat with herhand. Jordan and Tom and I got into the front seat of Gats-by’s car, Tom pushed the unfamiliar gears tentatively andwe shot off into the oppressive heat leaving them out of sightbehind.‘Did you see that?’ demanded Tom.‘See what?’He looked at me keenly, realizing that Jordan and I musthave known all along.‘You think I’m pretty dumb, don’t you?’ he suggested.‘Perhaps I am, but I have a—almost a second sight, some-times, that tells me what to do. Maybe you don’t believethat, but science——‘He paused. The immediate contingency overtook him,pulled him back from the edge of the theoretical abyss.‘I’ve made a small investigation of this fellow,’ he contin-ued. ‘I could have gone deeper if I’d known——‘‘Do you mean you’ve been to a medium?’ inquired Jor-dan humorously.Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com1‘What?’ Confused, he stared at us as we laughed. ‘A me-dium?’‘About Gatsby.’‘About Gatsby! No, I haven’t. I said I’d been making asmall investigation of his past.’‘And you found he was an Oxford man,’ said Jordanhelpfully.‘An Oxford man!’ He was incredulous. ‘Like hell he is!He wears a pink suit.’‘Nevertheless he’s an Oxford man.’‘Oxford, New Mexico,’ snorted Tom contemptuously, ‘orsomething like that.’‘Listen, Tom. If you’re such a snob, why did you invitehim to lunch?’ demanded Jordan crossly.‘Daisy invited him; she knew him before we were mar-ried—God knows where!’We were all irritable now with the fading ale and, awareof it, we drove for a while in silence. Then as Doctor T. J.Eckleburg’s faded eyes came into sight down the road, I re-membered Gatsby’s caution about gasoline.‘We’ve got enough to get us to town,’ said Tom.‘But there’s a garage right here,’ objected Jordan. ‘I don’twant to get stalled in this baking heat.’Tom threw on both brakes impatiently and we slid to anabrupt dusty stop under Wilson’s sign. After a moment theproprietor emerged from the interior of his establishmentand gazed hollow-eyed at the car.‘Let’s have some gas!’ cried Tom roughly. ‘What do youthink we stopped for—to admire the view?’10The Great Gatsby‘I’m sick,’ said Wilson without moving. ‘I been sick allday.’‘What’s the matter?’‘I’m all run down.’‘Well, shall I help myself?’ Tom demanded. ‘You sound-ed well enough on the phone.’With an effort Wilson left the shade and support of thedoorway and, breathing hard, unscrewed the cap of thetank. In the sunlight his face was green.‘I didn’t mean to interrupt your lunch,’ he said. ‘But Ineed money pretty bad and I was wondering what you weregoing to do with your old car.’‘How do you like this one?’ inquired Tom. ‘I bought itlast week.’‘It’s a nice yellow one,’ said Wilson, as he strained at thehandle.‘Like to buy it?’‘Big chance,’ Wilson smiled faintly. ‘No, but I could makesome money on the other.’‘What do you want money for, all of a sudden?’‘I’ve been here too long. I want to get away. My wife andI want to go west.’‘Your wife does!’ exclaimed Tom, startled.‘She’s been talking about it for ten years.’ He rested fora moment against the pump, shading his eyes. ‘And nowshe’s going whether she wants to or not. I’m going to gether away.’The coupe flashed by us with a flurry of dust and theflash of a waving hand.Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com11‘What do I owe you?’ demanded Tom harshly.‘I just got wised up to something funny the last two days,’remarked Wilson. ‘That’s why I want to get away. That’s whyI been bothering you about the car.’‘What do I owe you?’‘Dollar twenty.’The relentless beating heat was beginning to confuseme and I had a bad moment there before I realized that sofar his suspicions hadn’t alighted on Tom. He had discov-ered that Myrtle had some sort of life apart from him inanother world and the shock had made him physically sick.I stared at him and then at Tom, who had made a paralleldiscovery less than an hour before—and it occurred to methat there was no difference between men, in intelligence orrace, so profound as the difference between the sick and thewell. Wilson was so sick that he looked guilty, unforgivablyguilty—as if he had just got some poor girl with child.‘I’ll let you have that car,’ said Tom. ‘I’ll send it over to-morrow afternoon.’That locality was always vaguely disquieting, even inthe broad glare of afternoon, and now I turned my head asthough I had been warned of something behind. Over theashheaps the giant eyes of Doctor T. J. Eckleburg kept theirvigil but I perceived, after a moment, that other eyes wereregarding us with peculiar intensity from less than twentyfeet away.In one of the windows over the garage the curtains hadbeen moved aside a little and Myrtle Wilson was peeringdown at the car. So engrossed was she that she had no con-1The Great Gatsbysciousness of being observed and one emotion after anothercrept into her face like objects into a slowly developing pic-ture. Her expression was curiously familiar—it was anexpression I had often seen on women’s faces but on MyrtleWilson’s face it seemed purposeless and inexplicable untilI realized that her eyes, wide with jealous terror, were fixednot on Tom, but on Jordan Baker, whom she took to be hiswife.There is no confusion like the confusion of a simplemind, and as we drove away Tom was feeling the hot whipsof panic. His wife and his mistress, until an hour ago secureand inviolate, were slipping precipitately from his control.Instinct made him step on the accelerator with the doublepurpose of overtaking Daisy and leaving Wilson behind,and we sped along toward Astoria at fifty miles an hour,until, among the spidery girders of the elevated, we came insight of the easygoing blue coupe.‘Those big movies around Fiftieth Street are cool,’ sug-gested Jordan. ‘I love New York on summer afternoonswhen every one’s away. There’s something very sensuousabout it—overripe, as if all sorts of funny fruits were goingto fall into your hands.’The word ‘sensuous’ had the effect of further disquietingTom but before he could invent a protest the coupe came toa stop and Daisy signalled us to draw up alongside.‘Where are we going?’ she cried.‘How about the movies?’‘It’s so hot,’ she complained. ‘You go. We’ll ride aroundand meet you after.’ With an effort her wit rose faintly,Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com1‘We’ll meet you on some corner. I’ll be the man smokingtwo cigarettes.’‘We can’t argue about it here,’ Tom said impatiently as atruck gave out a cursing whistle behind us. ‘You follow meto the south side of Central Park, in front of the Plaza.’Several times he turned his head and looked back fortheir car, and if the traffic delayed them he slowed up untilthey came into sight. I think he was afraid they would dartdown a side street and out of his life forever.But they didn’t. And we all took the less explicable stepof engaging the parlor of a suite in the Plaza Hotel.The prolonged and tumultuous argument that ended byherding us into that room eludes me, though I have a sharpphysical memory that, in the course of it, my underwearkept climbing like a damp snake around my legs and in-termittent beads of sweat raced cool across my back. Thenotion originated with Daisy’s suggestion that we hire fivebathrooms and take cold baths, and then assumed moretangible form as ‘a place to have a mint julep.’ Each of ussaid over and over that it was a ‘crazy idea’—we all talked atonce to a baffled clerk and thought, or pretended to think,that we were being very funny….The room was large and stifling, and, though it was al-ready four o’clock, opening the windows admitted only agust of hot shrubbery from the Park. Daisy went to the mir-ror and stood with her back to us, fixing her hair.‘It’s a swell suite,’ whispered Jordan respectfully and ev-ery one laughed.‘Open another window,’ commanded Daisy, without1The Great Gatsbyturning around.‘There aren’t any more.’‘Well, we’d better telephone for an axe——‘‘The thing to do is to forget about the heat,’ said Tom im-patiently. ‘You make it ten times worse by crabbing aboutit.’ He unrolled the bottle of whiskey from the towel and putit on the table.‘Why not let her alone, old sport?’ remarked Gatsby.‘You’re the one that wanted to come to town.’There was a moment of silence. The telephone bookslipped from its nail and splashed to the floor, whereup-on Jordan whispered ‘Excuse me’—but this time no onelaughed.‘I’ll pick it up,’ I offered.‘I’ve got it.’ Gatsby examined the parted string, mut-tered ‘Hum!’ in an interested way, and tossed the book ona chair.‘That’s a great expression of yours, isn’t it?’ said Tomsharply.‘What is?’‘All this ‘old sport’ business. Where’d you pick that up?’‘Now see here, Tom,’ said Daisy, turning around fromthe mirror, ‘if you’re going to make personal remarks Iwon’t stay here a minute. Call up and order some ice for themint julep.’As Tom took up the receiver the compressed heat ex-ploded into sound and we were listening to the portentouschords of Mendelssohn’s Wedding March from the ball-Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com1room below.‘Imagine marrying anybody in this heat!’ cried Jordandismally.‘Still—I was married in the middle of June,’ Daisy re-membered, ‘Louisville in June! Somebody fainted. Whowas it fainted, Tom?’‘Biloxi,’ he answered shortly.‘A man named Biloxi. ‘Blocks’ Biloxi, and he made box-es—that’s a fact—and he was from Biloxi, Tennessee.’‘They carried him into my house,’ appended Jordan,‘because we lived just two doors from the church. And hestayed three weeks, until Daddy told him he had to get out.The day after he left Daddy died.’ After a moment she addedas if she might have sounded irreverent, ‘There wasn’t anyconnection.’‘I used to know a Bill Biloxi from Memphis,’ I re-marked.‘That was his cousin. I knew his whole family historybefore he left. He gave me an aluminum putter that I usetoday.’The music had died down as the ceremony began andnow a long cheer floated in at the window, followed by in-termittent cries of ‘Yea—ea—ea!’ and finally by a burst ofjazz as the dancing began.‘We’re getting old,’ said Daisy. ‘If we were young we’drise and dance.’‘Remember Biloxi,’ Jordan warned her. ‘Where’d youknow him, Tom?’‘Biloxi?’ He concentrated with an effort. ‘I didn’t know1The Great Gatsbyhim. He was a friend of Daisy’s.’‘He was not,’ she denied. ‘I’d never seen him before. Hecame down in the private car.’‘Well, he said he knew you. He said he was raised in Lou-isville. Asa Bird brought him around at the last minute andasked if we had room for him.’Jordan smiled.‘He was probably bumming his way home. He told me hewas president of your class at Yale.’Tom and I looked at each other blankly.‘BilOxi?’‘First place, we didn’t have any president——‘Gatsby’s foot beat a short, restless tattoo and Tom eyedhim suddenly.‘By the way, Mr. Gatsby, I understand you’re an Oxfordman.’‘Not exactly.’‘Oh, yes, I understand you went to Oxford.’‘Yes—I went there.’A pause. Then Tom’s voice, incredulous and insulting:‘You must have gone there about the time Biloxi went toNew Haven.’Another pause. A waiter knocked and came in withcrushed mint and ice but the silence was unbroken by his‘Thank you’ and the soft closing of the door. This tremen-dous detail was to be cleared up at last.‘I told you I went there,’ said Gatsby.‘I heard you, but I’d like to know when.’‘It was in nineteen-nineteen, I only stayed five months.Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com1That’s why I can’t really call myself an Oxford man.’Tom glanced around to see if we mirrored his unbelief.But we were all looking at Gatsby.‘It was an opportunity they gave to some of the officersafter the Armistice,’ he continued. ‘We could go to any ofthe universities in England or France.’I wanted to get up and slap him on the back. I had oneof those renewals of complete faith in him that I’d experi-enced before.Daisy rose, smiling faintly, and went to the table.‘Open the whiskey, Tom,’ she ordered. ‘And I’ll make youa mint julep. Then you won’t seem so stupid to yourself….Look at the mint!’‘Wait a minute,’ snapped Tom, ‘I want to ask Mr. Gatsbyone more question.’‘Go on,’ Gatsby said politely.‘What kind of a row are you trying to cause in my houseanyhow?’They were out in the open at last and Gatsby was con-tent.‘He isn’t causing a row.’ Daisy looked desperately fromone to the other. ‘You’re causing a row. Please have a littleself control.’‘Self control!’ repeated Tom incredulously. ‘I suppose thelatest thing is to sit back and let Mr. Nobody from Nowheremake love to your wife. Well, if that’s the idea you can countme out…. Nowadays people begin by sneering at familylife and family institutions and next they’ll throw every-thing overboard and have intermarriage between black and1The Great Gatsbywhite.’Flushed with his impassioned gibberish he saw himselfstanding alone on the last barrier of civilization.‘We’re all white here,’ murmured Jordan.‘I know I’m not very popular. I don’t give big parties. Isuppose you’ve got to make your house into a pigsty in or-der to have any friends—in the modern world.’Angry as I was, as we all were, I was tempted to laughwhenever he opened his mouth. The transition from liber-tine to prig was so complete.‘I’ve got something to tell YOU, old sport,——’ beganGatsby. But Daisy guessed at his intention.‘Please don’t!’ she interrupted helplessly. ‘Please let’s allgo home. Why don’t we all go home?’‘That’s a good idea.’ I got up. ‘Come on, Tom. Nobodywants a drink.’‘I want to know what Mr. Gatsby has to tell me.’‘Your wife doesn’t love you,’ said Gatsby. ‘She’s neverloved you. She loves me.’‘You must be crazy!’ exclaimed Tom automatically.Gatsby sprang to his feet, vivid with excitement.‘She never loved you, do you hear?’ he cried. ‘She onlymarried you because I was poor and she was tired of wait-ing for me. It was a terrible mistake, but in her heart shenever loved any one except me!’At this point Jordan and I tried to go but Tom and Gats-by insisted with competitive firmness that we remain—asthough neither of them had anything to conceal and itwould be a privilege to partake vicariously of their emo-Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com1tions.‘Sit down Daisy.’ Tom’s voice groped unsuccessfully forthe paternal note. ‘What’s been going on? I want to hear allabout it.’‘I told you what’s been going on,’ said Gatsby. ‘Going onfor five years—and you didn’t know.’Tom turned to Daisy sharply.‘You’ve been seeing this fellow for five years?’‘Not seeing,’ said Gatsby. ‘No, we couldn’t meet. But bothof us loved each other all that time, old sport, and you didn’tknow. I used to laugh sometimes—‘but there was no laugh-ter in his eyes, ‘to think that you didn’t know.’‘Oh—that’s all.’ Tom tapped his thick fingers togetherlike a clergyman and leaned back in his chair.‘You’re crazy!’ he exploded. ‘I can’t speak about whathappened five years ago, because I didn’t know Daisy then—and I’ll be damned if I see how you got within a mile of herunless you brought the groceries to the back door. But allthe rest of that’s a God Damned lie. Daisy loved me whenshe married me and she loves me now.’‘No,’ said Gatsby, shaking his head.‘She does, though. The trouble is that sometimes she getsfoolish ideas in her head and doesn’t know what she’s do-ing.’ He nodded sagely. ‘And what’s more, I love Daisy too.Once in a while I go off on a spree and make a fool of my-self, but I always come back, and in my heart I love her allthe time.’‘You’re revolting,’ said Daisy. She turned to me, and hervoice, dropping an octave lower, filled the room with thrill-10The Great Gatsbying scorn: ‘Do you know why we left Chicago? I’m surprisedthat they didn’t treat you to the story of that little spree.’Gatsby walked over and stood beside her.‘Daisy, that’s all over now,’ he said earnestly. ‘It doesn’tmatter any more. Just tell him the truth—that you neverloved him—and it’s all wiped out forever.’She looked at him blindly. ‘Why,—how could I lovehim—possibly?’‘You never loved him.’She hesitated. Her eyes fell on Jordan and me with a sortof appeal, as though she realized at last what she was do-ing—and as though she had never, all along, intended doinganything at all. But it was done now. It was too late.‘I never loved him,’ she said, with perceptible reluc-tance.‘Not at Kapiolani?’ demanded Tom suddenly.‘No.’From the ballroom beneath, muffled and suffocatingchords were drifting up on hot waves of air.‘Not that day I carried you down from the Punch Bowl tokeep your shoes dry?’ There was a husky tenderness in histone. ‘… Daisy?’‘Please don’t.’ Her voice was cold, but the rancour wasgone from it. She looked at Gatsby. ‘There, Jay,’ she said—but her hand as she tried to light a cigarette was trembling.Suddenly she threw the cigarette and the burning match onthe carpet.‘Oh, you want too much!’ she cried to Gatsby. ‘I love younow—isn’t that enough? I can’t help what’s past.’ She beganFree eBooks at Planet eBook.com11to sob helplessly. ‘I did love him once—but I loved you too.’Gatsby’s eyes opened and closed.‘You loved me TOO?’ he repeated.‘Even that’s a lie,’ said Tom savagely. ‘She didn’t knowyou were alive. Why,—there’re things between Daisy andme that you’ll never know, things that neither of us can everforget.’The words seemed to bite physically into Gatsby.‘I want to speak to Daisy alone,’ he insisted. ‘She’s all ex-cited now——‘‘Even alone I can’t say I never loved Tom,’ she admittedin a pitiful voice. ‘It wouldn’t be true.’‘Of course it wouldn’t,’ agreed Tom.She turned to her husband.‘As if it mattered to you,’ she said.‘Of course it matters. I’m going to take better care of youfrom now on.’‘You don’t understand,’ said Gatsby, with a touch of pan-ic. ‘You’re not going to take care of her any more.’‘I’m not?’ Tom opened his eyes wide and laughed. Hecould afford to control himself now. ‘Why’s that?’‘Daisy’s leaving you.’‘Nonsense.’‘I am, though,’ she said with a visible effort.‘She’s not leaving me!’ Tom’s words suddenly leaneddown over Gatsby. ‘Certainly not for a common swindlerwho’d have to steal the ring he put on her finger.’‘I won’t stand this!’ cried Daisy. ‘Oh, please let’s get out.’‘Who are you, anyhow?’ broke out Tom. ‘You’re one of1The Great Gatsbythat bunch that hangs around with Meyer Wolfshiem—thatmuch I happen to know. I’ve made a little investigation intoyour affairs—and I’ll carry it further tomorrow.’‘You can suit yourself about that, old sport.’ said Gatsbysteadily.‘I found out what your ‘drug stores’ were.’ He turned tous and spoke rapidly. ‘He and this Wolfshiem bought up alot of side-street drug stores here and in Chicago and soldgrain alcohol over the counter. That’s one of his little stunts.I picked him for a bootlegger the first time I saw him and Iwasn’t far wrong.’‘What about it?’ said Gatsby politely. ‘I guess your friendWalter Chase wasn’t too proud to come in on it.’‘And you left him in the lurch, didn’t you? You let him goto jail for a month over in New Jersey. God! You ought tohear Walter on the subject of YOU.’‘He came to us dead broke. He was very glad to pick upsome money, old sport.’‘Don’t you call me ‘old sport’!’ cried Tom. Gatsby saidnothing. ‘Walter could have you up on the betting laws too,but Wolfshiem scared him into shutting his mouth.’That unfamiliar yet recognizable look was back again inGatsby’s face.‘That drug store business was just small change,’ con-tinued Tom slowly, ‘but you’ve got something on now thatWalter’s afraid to tell me about.’I glanced at Daisy who was staring terrified betweenGatsby and her husband and at Jordan who had begun tobalance an invisible but absorbing object on the tip of herFree eBooks at Planet eBook.com1chin. Then I turned back to Gatsby—and was startled athis expression. He looked—and this is said in all contemptfor the babbled slander of his garden—as if he had ‘killed aman.’ For a moment the set of his face could be described injust that fantastic way.It passed, and he began to talk excitedly to Daisy, deny-ing everything, defending his name against accusations thathad not been made. But with every word she was drawingfurther and further into herself, so he gave that up and onlythe dead dream fought on as the afternoon slipped away,trying to touch what was no longer tangible, struggling un-happily, undespairingly, toward that lost voice across theroom.The voice begged again to go.‘PLEASE, Tom! I can’t stand this any more.’Her frightened eyes told that whatever intentions, what-ever courage she had had, were definitely gone.‘You two start on home, Daisy,’ said Tom. ‘In Mr. Gats-by’s car.’She looked at Tom, alarmed now, but he insisted withmagnanimous scorn.‘Go on. He won’t annoy you. I think he realizes that hispresumptuous little flirtation is over.’They were gone, without a word, snapped out, made ac-cidental, isolated, like ghosts even from our pity.After a moment Tom got up and began wrapping the un-opened bottle of whiskey in the towel.‘Want any of this stuff? Jordan? … Nick?’I didn’t answer.1The Great Gatsby‘Nick?’ He asked again.‘What?’‘Want any?’‘No … I just remembered that today’s my birthday.’I was thirty. Before me stretched the portentous menac-ing road of a new decade.It was seven o’clock when we got into the coupe with himand started for Long Island. Tom talked incessantly, exult-ing and laughing, but his voice was as remote from Jordanand me as the foreign clamor on the sidewalk or the tumultof the elevated overhead. Human sympathy has its limitsand we were content to let all their tragic arguments fadewith the city lights behind. Thirty—the promise of a decadeof loneliness, a thinning list of single men to know, a thin-ning brief-case of enthusiasm, thinning hair. But there wasJordan beside me who, unlike Daisy, was too wise ever tocarry well-forgotten dreams from age to age. As we passedover the dark bridge her wan face fell lazily against my coat’sshoulder and the formidable stroke of thirty died away withthe reassuring pressure of her hand.So we drove on toward death through the cooling twi-light.The young Greek, Michaelis, who ran the coffee joint be-side the ashheaps was the principal witness at the inquest.He had slept through the heat until after five, when hestrolled over to the garage and found George Wilson sick inhis office—really sick, pale as his own pale hair and shakingall over. Michaelis advised him to go to bed but Wilson re-fused, saying that he’d miss a lot of business if he did. WhileFree eBooks at Planet eBook.com1his neighbor was trying to persuade him a violent racketbroke out overhead.‘I’ve got my wife locked in up there,’ explained Wilsoncalmly. ‘She’s going to stay there till the day after tomorrowand then we’re going to move away.’Michaelis was astonished; they had been neighbors forfour years and Wilson had never seemed faintly capable ofsuch a statement. Generally he was one of these worn-outmen: when he wasn’t working he sat on a chair in the door-way and stared at the people and the cars that passed alongthe road. When any one spoke to him he invariably laughedin an agreeable, colorless way. He was his wife’s man andnot his own.So naturally Michaelis tried to find out what had hap-pened, but Wilson wouldn’t say a word—instead he beganto throw curious, suspicious glances at his visitor and askhim what he’d been doing at certain times on certain days.Just as the latter was getting uneasy some workmen camepast the door bound for his restaurant and Michaelis tookthe opportunity to get away, intending to come back later.But he didn’t. He supposed he forgot to, that’s all. When hecame outside again a little after seven he was reminded ofthe conversation because he heard Mrs. Wilson’s voice, loudand scolding, downstairs in the garage.‘Beat me!’ he heard her cry. ‘Throw me down and beatme, you dirty little coward!’A moment later she rushed out into the dusk, waving herhands and shouting; before he could move from his doorthe business was over.1The Great GatsbyThe ‘death car’ as the newspapers called it, didn’t stop;it came out of the gathering darkness, wavered tragicallyfor a moment and then disappeared around the next bend.Michaelis wasn’t even sure of its color—he told the first po-liceman that it was light green. The other car, the one goingtoward New York, came to rest a hundred yards beyond,and its driver hurried back to where Myrtle Wilson, her lifeviolently extinguished, knelt in the road and mingled herthick, dark blood with the dust.Michaelis and this man reached her first but when theyhad torn open her shirtwaist still damp with perspiration,they saw that her left breast was swinging loose like a flapand there was no need to listen for the heart beneath. Themouth was wide open and ripped at the corners as thoughshe had choked a little in giving up the tremendous vitalityshe had stored so long.We saw the three or four automobiles and the crowdwhen we were still some distance away.‘Wreck!’ said Tom. ‘That’s good. Wilson’ll have a littlebusiness at last.’He slowed down, but still without any intention of stop-ping until, as we came nearer, the hushed intent faces of thepeople at the garage door made him automatically put onthe brakes.‘We’ll take a look,’ he said doubtfully, ‘just a look.’I became aware now of a hollow, wailing sound which is-sued incessantly from the garage, a sound which as we gotout of the coupe and walked toward the door resolved it-self into the words ‘Oh, my God!’ uttered over and over inFree eBooks at Planet eBook.com1a gasping moan.‘There’s some bad trouble here,’ said Tom excitedly.He reached up on tiptoes and peered over a circle ofheads into the garage which was lit only by a yellow lightin a swinging wire basket overhead. Then he made a harshsound in his throat and with a violent thrusting movementof his powerful arms pushed his way through.The circle closed up again with a running murmur of ex-postulation; it was a minute before I could see anything atall. Then new arrivals disarranged the line and Jordan and Iwere pushed suddenly inside.Myrtle Wilson’s body wrapped in a blanket and thenin another blanket as though she suffered from a chill inthe hot night lay on a work table by the wall and Tom,with his back to us, was bending over it, motionless. Nextto him stood a motorcycle policeman taking down nameswith much sweat and correction in a little book. At first Icouldn’t find the source of the high, groaning words thatechoed clamorously through the bare garage—then I sawWilson standing on the raised threshold of his office, sway-ing back and forth and holding to the doorposts with bothhands. Some man was talking to him in a low voice andattempting from time to time to lay a hand on his shoul-der, but Wilson neither heard nor saw. His eyes would dropslowly from the swinging light to the laden table by the walland then jerk back to the light again and he gave out inces-santly his high horrible call.‘O, my Ga-od! O, my Ga-od! Oh, Ga-od! Oh, my Ga-od!’1The Great GatsbyPresently Tom lifted his head with a jerk and after staringaround the garage with glazed eyes addressed a mumbledincoherent remark to the policeman.‘M-a-v—’ the policeman was saying, ‘—o——‘‘No,—r—’ corrected the man, ‘M-a-v-r-o——‘‘Listen to me!’ muttered Tom fiercely.‘r—’ said the policeman, ‘o——‘‘g——‘‘g—’ He looked up as Tom’s broad hand fell sharply onhis shoulder. ‘What you want, fella?’‘What happened—that’s what I want to know!’‘Auto hit her. Ins’antly killed.’‘Instantly killed,’ repeated Tom, staring.‘She ran out ina road. Son-of-a-bitch didn’t even stopuscar.’‘There was two cars,’ said Michaelis, ‘one comin’, onegoin’, see?’‘Going where?’ asked the policeman keenly.‘One goin’ each way. Well, she—’ His hand rose towardthe blankets but stopped half way and fell to his side, ‘—sheran out there an’ the one comin’ from N’York knock rightinto her goin’ thirty or forty miles an hour.’‘What’s the name of this place here?’ demanded the of-ficer.‘Hasn’t got any name.’A pale, well-dressed Negro stepped near.‘It was a yellow car,’ he said, ‘big yellow car. New.’‘See the accident?’ asked the policeman.‘No, but the car passed me down the road, going faster’nFree eBooks at Planet eBook.com1forty. Going fifty, sixty.’‘Come here and let’s have your name. Look out now. Iwant to get his name.’Some words of this conversation must have reached Wil-son swaying in the office door, for suddenly a new themefound voice among his gasping cries.‘You don’t have to tell me what kind of car it was! I knowwhat kind of car it was!’Watching Tom I saw the wad of muscle back of hisshoulder tighten under his coat. He walked quickly over toWilson and standing in front of him seized him firmly bythe upper arms.‘You’ve got to pull yourself together,’ he said with sooth-ing gruffness.Wilson’s eyes fell upon Tom; he started up on his tiptoesand then would have collapsed to his knees had not Tomheld him upright.‘Listen,’ said Tom, shaking him a little. ‘I just got here aminute ago, from New York. I was bringing you that coupewe’ve been talking about. That yellow car I was driving thisafternoon wasn’t mine, do you hear? I haven’t seen it all af-ternoon.’Only the Negro and I were near enough to hear what hesaid but the policeman caught something in the tone andlooked over with truculent eyes.‘What’s all that?’ he demanded.‘I’m a friend of his.’ Tom turned his head but kept hishands firm on Wilson’s body. ‘He says he knows the car thatdid it…. It was a yellow car.’10The Great GatsbySome dim impulse moved the policeman to look suspi-ciously at Tom.‘And what color’s your car?’‘It’s a blue car, a coupe.’‘We’ve come straight from New York,’ I said.Some one who had been driving a little behind us con-firmed this and the policeman turned away.‘Now, if you’ll let me have that name again correct——‘Picking up Wilson like a doll Tom carried him into theoffice, set him down in a chair and came back.‘If somebody’ll come here and sit with him!’ he snappedauthoritatively. He watched while the two men standingclosest glanced at each other and went unwillingly into theroom. Then Tom shut the door on them and came down thesingle step, his eyes avoiding the table. As he passed close tome he whispered ‘Let’s get out.’Self consciously, with his authoritative arms breakingthe way, we pushed through the still gathering crowd, pass-ing a hurried doctor, case in hand, who had been sent for inwild hope half an hour ago.Tom drove slowly until we were beyond the bend—thenhis foot came down hard and the coupe raced along throughthe night. In a little while I heard a low husky sob and sawthat the tears were overflowing down his face.‘The God Damn coward!’ he whimpered. ‘He didn’t evenstop his car.’The Buchanans’ house floated suddenly toward usthrough the dark rustling trees. Tom stopped beside theporch and looked up at the second floor where two win-Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com11dows bloomed with light among the vines.‘Daisy’s home,’ he said. As we got out of the car he glancedat me and frowned slightly.‘I ought to have dropped you in West Egg, Nick. There’snothing we can do tonight.’A change had come over him and he spoke gravely, andwith decision. As we walked across the moonlight gravel tothe porch he disposed of the situation in a few brisk phras-es. ‘I’ll telephone for a taxi to take you home, and whileyou’re waiting you and Jordan better go in the kitchenand have them get you some supper—if you want any.’ Heopened the door. ‘Come in.’‘No thanks. But I’d be glad if you’d order me the taxi. I’llwait outside.’Jordan put her hand on my arm.‘Won’t you come in, Nick?’‘No thanks.’I was feeling a little sick and I wanted to be alone. ButJordan lingered for a moment more.‘It’s only half past nine,’ she said.I’d be damned if I’d go in; I’d had enough of all of themfor one day and suddenly that included Jordan too. She musthave seen something of this in my expression for she turnedabruptly away and ran up the porch steps into the house. Isat down for a few minutes with my head in my hands, untilI heard the phone taken up inside and the butler’s voice call-ing a taxi. Then I walked slowly down the drive away fromthe house intending to wait by the gate.1The Great GatsbyI hadn’t gone twenty yards when I heard my name andGatsby stepped from between two bushes into the path. Imust have felt pretty weird by that time because I couldthink of nothing except the luminosity of his pink suit un-der the moon.‘What are you doing?’ I inquired.‘Just standing here, old sport.’Somehow, that seemed a despicable occupation. For all Iknew he was going to rob the house in a moment; I wouldn’thave been surprised to see sinister faces, the faces of ‘Wolf-shiem’s people,’ behind him in the dark shrubbery.‘Did you see any trouble on the road?’ he asked after aminute.‘Yes.’He hesitated.‘Was she killed?’‘Yes.’‘I thought so; I told Daisy I thought so. It’s better that theshock should all come at once. She stood it pretty well.’He spoke as if Daisy’s reaction was the only thing thatmattered.‘I got to West Egg by a side road,’ he went on, ‘and left thecar in my garage. I don’t think anybody saw us but of courseI can’t be sure.’I disliked him so much by this time that I didn’t find itnecessary to tell him he was wrong.‘Who was the woman?’ he inquired.‘Her name was Wilson. Her husband owns the garage.How the devil did it happen?’Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com1‘Well, I tried to swing the wheel——’ He broke off, andsuddenly I guessed at the truth.‘Was Daisy driving?’‘Yes,’ he said after a moment, ‘but of course I’ll say I was.You see, when we left New York she was very nervous andshe thought it would steady her to drive—and this womanrushed out at us just as we were passing a car coming theother way. It all happened in a minute but it seemed to methat she wanted to speak to us, thought we were somebodyshe knew. Well, first Daisy turned away from the wom-an toward the other car, and then she lost her nerve andturned back. The second my hand reached the wheel I feltthe shock—it must have killed her instantly.’‘It ripped her open——‘‘Don’t tell me, old sport.’ He winced. ‘Anyhow—Daisystepped on it. I tried to make her stop, but she couldn’t so Ipulled on the emergency brake. Then she fell over into mylap and I drove on.‘She’ll be all right tomorrow,’ he said presently. ‘I’m justgoing to wait here and see if he tries to bother her about thatunpleasantness this afternoon. She’s locked herself into herroom and if he tries any brutality she’s going to turn thelight out and on again.’‘He won’t touch her,’ I said. ‘He’s not thinking abouther.’‘I don’t trust him, old sport.’‘How long are you going to wait?’‘All night if necessary. Anyhow till they all go to bed.’A new point of view occurred to me. Suppose Tom found1The Great Gatsbyout that Daisy had been driving. He might think he saw aconnection in it—he might think anything. I looked at thehouse: there were two or three bright windows downstairsand the pink glow from Daisy’s room on the second floor.‘You wait here,’ I said. ‘I’ll see if there’s any sign of a com-motion.’I walked back along the border of the lawn, traversed thegravel softly and tiptoed up the veranda steps. The draw-ing-room curtains were open, and I saw that the room wasempty. Crossing the porch where we had dined that Junenight three months before I came to a small rectangle oflight which I guessed was the pantry window. The blind wasdrawn but I found a rift at the sill.Daisy and Tom were sitting opposite each other at thekitchen table with a plate of cold fried chicken betweenthem and two bottles of ale. He was talking intently acrossthe table at her and in his earnestness his hand had fallenupon and covered her own. Once in a while she looked upat him and nodded in agreement.They weren’t happy, and neither of them had touched thechicken or the ale—and yet they weren’t unhappy either.There was an unmistakable air of natural intimacy aboutthe picture and anybody would have said that they wereconspiring together.As I tiptoed from the porch I heard my taxi feeling itsway along the dark road toward the house. Gatsby was wait-ing where I had left him in the drive.‘Is it all quiet up there?’ he asked anxiously.‘Yes, it’s all quiet.’ I hesitated. ‘You’d better come homeFree eBooks at Planet eBook.com1and get some sleep.’He shook his head.‘I want to wait here till Daisy goes to bed. Good night,old sport.’He put his hands in his coat pockets and turned backeagerly to his scrutiny of the house, as though my presencemarred the sacredness of the vigil. So I walked away and lefthim standing there in the moonlight—watching over noth-ing.1The Great GatsbyChapter 8I couldn’t sleep all night; a fog-horn was groaning in-cessantly on the Sound, and I tossed half-sick betweengrotesque reality and savage frightening dreams. Towarddawn I heard a taxi go up Gatsby’s drive and immediatelyI jumped out of bed and began to dress—I felt that I hadsomething to tell him, something to warn him about andmorning would be too late.Crossing his lawn I saw that his front door was still openand he was leaning against a table in the hall, heavy withdejection or sleep.‘Nothing happened,’ he said wanly. ‘I waited, and aboutfour o’clock she came to the window and stood there for aminute and then turned out the light.’His house had never seemed so enormous to me as it didthat night when we hunted through the great rooms for cig-arettes. We pushed aside curtains that were like pavilionsand felt over innumerable feet of dark wall for electric lightswitches—once I tumbled with a sort of splash upon thekeys of a ghostly piano. There was an inexplicable amountof dust everywhere and the rooms were musty as thoughthey hadn’t been aired for many days. I found the humidoron an unfamiliar table with two stale dry cigarettes inside.Throwing open the French windows of the drawing-roomwe sat smoking out into the darkness.Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com1‘You ought to go away,’ I said. ‘It’s pretty certain they’lltrace your car.’‘Go away NOW, old sport?’‘Go to Atlantic City for a week, or up to Montreal.’He wouldn’t consider it. He couldn’t possibly leave Daisyuntil he knew what she was going to do. He was clutching atsome last hope and I couldn’t bear to shake him free.It was this night that he told me the strange story of hisyouth with Dan Cody—told it to me because ‘Jay Gatsby’had broken up like glass against Tom’s hard malice and thelong secret extravaganza was played out. I think that hewould have acknowledged anything, now, without reserve,but he wanted to talk about Daisy.She was the first ‘nice’ girl he had ever known. In vari-ous unrevealed capacities he had come in contact with suchpeople but always with indiscernible barbed wire between.He found her excitingly desirable. He went to her house, atfirst with other officers from Camp Taylor, then alone. Itamazed him—he had never been in such a beautiful housebefore. But what gave it an air of breathless intensity wasthat Daisy lived there—it was as casual a thing to her as histent out at camp was to him. There was a ripe mystery aboutit, a hint of bedrooms upstairs more beautiful and cool thanother bedrooms, of gay and radiant activities taking placethrough its corridors and of romances that were not mustyand laid away already in lavender but fresh and breathingand redolent of this year’s shining motor cars and of danc-es whose flowers were scarcely withered. It excited him toothat many men had already loved Daisy—it increased her1The Great Gatsbyvalue in his eyes. He felt their presence all about the house,pervading the air with the shades and echoes of still vibrantemotions.But he knew that he was in Daisy’s house by a colossalaccident. However glorious might be his future as Jay Gats-by, he was at present a penniless young man without a past,and at any moment the invisible cloak of his uniform mightslip from his shoulders. So he made the most of his time. Hetook what he could get, ravenously and unscrupulously—eventually he took Daisy one still October night, took herbecause he had no real right to touch her hand.He might have despised himself, for he had certainlytaken her under false pretenses. I don’t mean that he hadtraded on his phantom millions, but he had deliberatelygiven Daisy a sense of security; he let her believe that he wasa person from much the same stratum as herself—that hewas fully able to take care of her. As a matter of fact he hadno such facilities—he had no comfortable family standingbehind him and he was liable at the whim of an impersonalgovernment to be blown anywhere about the world.But he didn’t despise himself and it didn’t turn out as hehad imagined. He had intended, probably, to take what hecould and go—but now he found that he had committedhimself to the following of a grail. He knew that Daisy wasextraordinary but he didn’t realize just how extraordinarya ‘nice’ girl could be. She vanished into her rich house, intoher rich, full life, leaving Gatsby—nothing. He felt marriedto her, that was all.When they met again two days later it was Gatsby whoFree eBooks at Planet eBook.com1was breathless, who was somehow betrayed. Her porch wasbright with the bought luxury of star-shine; the wicker ofthe settee squeaked fashionably as she turned toward himand he kissed her curious and lovely mouth. She had caughta cold and it made her voice huskier and more charmingthan ever and Gatsby was overwhelmingly aware of theyouth and mystery that wealth imprisons and preserves, ofthe freshness of many clothes and of Daisy, gleaming likesilver, safe and proud above the hot struggles of the poor.‘I can’t describe to you how surprised I was to find outI loved her, old sport. I even hoped for a while that she’dthrow me over, but she didn’t, because she was in love withme too. She thought I knew a lot because I knew differentthings from her…. Well, there I was, way off my ambitions,getting deeper in love every minute, and all of a sudden Ididn’t care. What was the use of doing great things if I couldhave a better time telling her what I was going to do?’On the last afternoon before he went abroad he sat withDaisy in his arms for a long, silent time. It was a cold fallday with fire in the room and her cheeks flushed. Now andthen she moved and he changed his arm a little and oncehe kissed her dark shining hair. The afternoon had madethem tranquil for a while as if to give them a deep memoryfor the long parting the next day promised. They had neverbeen closer in their month of love nor communicated moreprofoundly one with another than when she brushed silentlips against his coat’s shoulder or when he touched the endof her fingers, gently, as though she were asleep.He did extraordinarily well in the war. He was a captain10The Great Gatsbybefore he went to the front and following the Argonne bat-tles he got his majority and the command of the divisionalmachine guns. After the Armistice he tried frantically toget home but some complication or misunderstanding senthim to Oxford instead. He was worried now—there was aquality of nervous despair in Daisy’s letters. She didn’t seewhy he couldn’t come. She was feeling the pressure of theworld outside and she wanted to see him and feel his pres-ence beside her and be reassured that she was doing theright thing after all.For Daisy was young and her artificial world was redolentof orchids and pleasant, cheerful snobbery and orchestraswhich set the rhythm of the year, summing up the sadnessand suggestiveness of life in new tunes. All night the sax-ophones wailed the hopeless comment of the ‘Beale StreetBlues’ while a hundred pairs of golden and silver slippersshuffled the shining dust. At the grey tea hour there werealways rooms that throbbed incessantly with this low sweetfever, while fresh faces drifted here and there like rose pet-als blown by the sad horns around the floor.Through this twilight universe Daisy began to moveagain with the season; suddenly she was again keeping halfa dozen dates a day with half a dozen men and drowsingasleep at dawn with the beads and chiffon of an eveningdress tangled among dying orchids on the floor beside herbed. And all the time something within her was crying fora decision. She wanted her life shaped now, immediately—and the decision must be made by some force—of love, ofmoney, of unquestionable practicality—that was close atFree eBooks at Planet eBook.com11hand.That force took shape in the middle of spring with the ar-rival of Tom Buchanan. There was a wholesome bulkinessabout his person and his position and Daisy was flattered.Doubtless there was a certain struggle and a certain relief.The letter reached Gatsby while he was still at Oxford.It was dawn now on Long Island and we went about open-ing the rest of the windows downstairs, filling the housewith grey turning, gold turning light. The shadow of a treefell abruptly across the dew and ghostly birds began to singamong the blue leaves. There was a slow pleasant movementin the air, scarcely a wind, promising a cool lovely day.‘I don’t think she ever loved him.’ Gatsby turned aroundfrom a window and looked at me challengingly. ‘You mustremember, old sport, she was very excited this afternoon.He told her those things in a way that frightened her—thatmade it look as if I was some kind of cheap sharper. And theresult was she hardly knew what she was saying.’He sat down gloomily.‘Of course she might have loved him, just for a minute,when they were first married—and loved me more eventhen, do you see?’Suddenly he came out with a curious remark:‘In any case,’ he said, ‘it was just personal.’What could you make of that, except to suspect someintensity in his conception of the affair that couldn’t bemeasured?He came back from France when Tom and Daisy werestill on their wedding trip, and made a miserable but irre-1The Great Gatsbysistible journey to Louisville on the last of his army pay. Hestayed there a week, walking the streets where their foot-steps had clicked together through the November night andrevisiting the out-of-the-way places to which they had driv-en in her white car. Just as Daisy’s house had always seemedto him more mysterious and gay than other houses so hisidea of the city itself, even though she was gone from it, waspervaded with a melancholy beauty.He left feeling that if he had searched harder he mighthave found her—that he was leaving her behind. The day-coach—he was penniless now—was hot. He went out to theopen vestibule and sat down on a folding-chair, and the sta-tion slid away and the backs of unfamiliar buildings movedby. Then out into the spring fields, where a yellow trolleyraced them for a minute with people in it who might oncehave seen the pale magic of her face along the casual street.The track curved and now it was going away from thesun which, as it sank lower, seemed to spread itself in bene-diction over the vanishing city where she had drawn herbreath. He stretched out his hand desperately as if to snatchonly a wisp of air, to save a fragment of the spot that she hadmade lovely for him. But it was all going by too fast now forhis blurred eyes and he knew that he had lost that part of it,the freshest and the best, forever.It was nine o’clock when we finished breakfast and wentout on the porch. The night had made a sharp difference inthe weather and there was an autumn flavor in the air. Thegardener, the last one of Gatsby’s former servants, came tothe foot of the steps.Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com1‘I’m going to drain the pool today, Mr. Gatsby. Leaves’llstart falling pretty soon and then there’s always troublewith the pipes.’‘Don’t do it today,’ Gatsby answered. He turned to meapologetically. ‘You know, old sport, I’ve never used thatpool all summer?’I looked at my watch and stood up.‘Twelve minutes to my train.’I didn’t want to go to the city. I wasn’t worth a decentstroke of work but it was more than that—I didn’t want toleave Gatsby. I missed that train, and then another, before Icould get myself away.‘I’ll call you up,’ I said finally.‘Do, old sport.’‘I’ll call you about noon.’We walked slowly down the steps.‘I suppose Daisy’ll call too.’ He looked at me anxiously asif he hoped I’d corroborate this.‘I suppose so.’‘Well—goodbye.’We shook hands and I started away. Just before I reachedthe hedge I remembered something and turned around.‘They’re a rotten crowd,’ I shouted across the lawn. ‘You’reworth the whole damn bunch put together.’I’ve always been glad I said that. It was the only compli-ment I ever gave him, because I disapproved of him frombeginning to end. First he nodded politely, and then his facebroke into that radiant and understanding smile, as if we’dbeen in ecstatic cahoots on that fact all the time. His gor-1The Great Gatsbygeous pink rag of a suit made a bright spot of color againstthe white steps and I thought of the night when I first cameto his ancestral home three months before. The lawn anddrive had been crowded with the faces of those who guessedat his corruption—and he had stood on those steps, conceal-ing his incorruptible dream, as he waved them goodbye.I thanked him for his hospitality. We were always thank-ing him for that—I and the others.‘Goodbye,’ I called. ‘I enjoyed breakfast, Gatsby.’Up in the city I tried for a while to list the quotationson an interminable amount of stock, then I fell asleep inmy swivel-chair. Just before noon the phone woke me and Istarted up with sweat breaking out on my forehead. It wasJordan Baker; she often called me up at this hour becausethe uncertainty of her own movements between hotels andclubs and private houses made her hard to find in any oth-er way. Usually her voice came over the wire as somethingfresh and cool as if a divot from a green golf links had comesailing in at the office window but this morning it seemedharsh and dry.‘I’ve left Daisy’s house,’ she said. ‘I’m at Hempstead andI’m going down to Southampton this afternoon.’Probably it had been tactful to leave Daisy’s house, butthe act annoyed me and her next remark made me rigid.‘You weren’t so nice to me last night.’‘How could it have mattered then?’Silence for a moment. Then—‘However—I want to see you.’‘I want to see you too.’Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com1‘Suppose I don’t go to Southampton, and come into townthis afternoon?’‘No—I don’t think this afternoon.’‘Very well.’‘It’s impossible this afternoon. Various——‘We talked like that for a while and then abruptly weweren’t talking any longer. I don’t know which of us hungup with a sharp click but I know I didn’t care. I couldn’thave talked to her across a tea-table that day if I never talkedto her again in this world.I called Gatsby’s house a few minutes later, but the linewas busy. I tried four times; finally an exasperated cen-tral told me the wire was being kept open for long distancefrom Detroit. Taking out my time-table I drew a small circlearound the three-fifty train. Then I leaned back in my chairand tried to think. It was just noon.When I passed the ashheaps on the train that morningI had crossed deliberately to the other side of the car. I sup-pose there’d be a curious crowd around there all day withlittle boys searching for dark spots in the dust and somegarrulous man telling over and over what had happeneduntil it became less and less real even to him and he couldtell it no longer and Myrtle Wilson’s tragic achievement wasforgotten. Now I want to go back a little and tell what hap-pened at the garage after we left there the night before.They had difficulty in locating the sister, Catherine. Shemust have broken her rule against drinking that night forwhen she arrived she was stupid with liquor and unable tounderstand that the ambulance had already gone to Flush-1The Great Gatsbying. When they convinced her of this she immediatelyfainted as if that was the intolerable part of the affair. Some-one kind or curious took her in his car and drove her in thewake of her sister’s body.Until long after midnight a changing crowd lapped upagainst the front of the garage while George Wilson rockedhimself back and forth on the couch inside. For a while thedoor of the office was open and everyone who came into thegarage glanced irresistibly through it. Finally someone saidit was a shame and closed the door. Michaelis and severalother men were with him—first four or five men, later twoor three men. Still later Michaelis had to ask the last strang-er to wait there fifteen minutes longer while he went back tohis own place and made a pot of coffee. After that he stayedthere alone with Wilson until dawn.About three o’clock the quality of Wilson’s incoherentmuttering changed—he grew quieter and began to talkabout the yellow car. He announced that he had a way offinding out whom the yellow car belonged to, and then heblurted out that a couple of months ago his wife had comefrom the city with her face bruised and her nose swollen.But when he heard himself say this, he flinched andbegan to cry ‘Oh, my God!’ again in his groaning voice. Mi-chaelis made a clumsy attempt to distract him.‘How long have you been married, George? Come onthere, try and sit still a minute and answer my question.How long have you been married?’‘Twelve years.’‘Ever had any children? Come on, George, sit still—IFree eBooks at Planet eBook.com1asked you a question. Did you ever have any children?’The hard brown beetles kept thudding against the dulllight and whenever Michaelis heard a car go tearing alongthe road outside it sounded to him like the car that hadn’tstopped a few hours before. He didn’t like to go into the ga-rage because the work bench was stained where the bodyhad been lying so he moved uncomfortably around the of-fice—he knew every object in it before morning—and fromtime to time sat down beside Wilson trying to keep himmore quiet.‘Have you got a church you go to sometimes, George?Maybe even if you haven’t been there for a long time? May-be I could call up the church and get a priest to come overand he could talk to you, see?’‘Don’t belong to any.’‘You ought to have a church, George, for times like this.You must have gone to church once. Didn’t you get mar-ried in a church? Listen, George, listen to me. Didn’t you getmarried in a church?’‘That was a long time ago.’The effort of answering broke the rhythm of his rocking—for a moment he was silent. Then the same half knowing,half bewildered look came back into his faded eyes.‘Look in the drawer there,’ he said, pointing at the desk.‘Which drawer?’‘That drawer—that one.’Michaelis opened the drawer nearest his hand. Therewas nothing in it but a small expensive dog leash made ofleather and braided silver. It was apparently new.1The Great Gatsby‘This?’ he inquired, holding it up.Wilson stared and nodded.‘I found it yesterday afternoon. She tried to tell me aboutit but I knew it was something funny.’‘You mean your wife bought it?’‘She had it wrapped in tissue paper on her bureau.’Michaelis didn’t see anything odd in that and he gaveWilson a dozen reasons why his wife might have bought thedog leash. But conceivably Wilson had heard some of thesesame explanations before, from Myrtle, because he begansaying ‘Oh, my God!’ again in a whisper—his comforter leftseveral explanations in the air.‘Then he killed her,’ said Wilson. His mouth droppedopen suddenly.‘Who did?’‘I have a way of finding out.’‘You’re morbid, George,’ said his friend. ‘This has been astrain to you and you don’t know what you’re saying. You’dbetter try and sit quiet till morning.’‘He murdered her.’‘It was an accident, George.’Wilson shook his head. His eyes narrowed and his mouthwidened slightly with the ghost of a superior ‘Hm!’‘I know,’ he said definitely, ‘I’m one of these trusting fel-las and I don’t think any harm to NObody, but when I get toknow a thing I know it. It was the man in that car. She ranout to speak to him and he wouldn’t stop.’Michaelis had seen this too but it hadn’t occurred to himthat there was any special significance in it. He believed thatFree eBooks at Planet eBook.com1Mrs. Wilson had been running away from her husband,rather than trying to stop any particular car.‘How could she of been like that?’‘She’s a deep one,’ said Wilson, as if that answered thequestion. ‘Ah-h-h——‘He began to rock again and Michaelis stood twisting theleash in his hand.‘Maybe you got some friend that I could telephone for,George?’This was a forlorn hope—he was almost sure that Wilsonhad no friend: there was not enough of him for his wife. Hewas glad a little later when he noticed a change in the room,a blue quickening by the window, and realized that dawnwasn’t far off. About five o’clock it was blue enough outsideto snap off the light.Wilson’s glazed eyes turned out to the ashheaps, wheresmall grey clouds took on fantastic shape and scurried hereand there in the faint dawn wind.‘I spoke to her,’ he muttered, after a long silence. ‘I toldher she might fool me but she couldn’t fool God. I took herto the window—’ With an effort he got up and walked tothe rear window and leaned with his face pressed againstit, ‘—and I said ‘God knows what you’ve been doing, ev-erything you’ve been doing. You may fool me but you can’tfool God!’ ‘Standing behind him Michaelis saw with a shock that hewas looking at the eyes of Doctor T. J. Eckleburg which hadjust emerged pale and enormous from the dissolving night.‘God sees everything,’ repeated Wilson.10The Great Gatsby‘That’s an advertisement,’ Michaelis assured him. Some-thing made him turn away from the window and look backinto the room. But Wilson stood there a long time, his faceclose to the window pane, nodding into the twilight.By six o’clock Michaelis was worn out and grateful forthe sound of a car stopping outside. It was one of the watch-ers of the night before who had promised to come back sohe cooked breakfast for three which he and the other manate together. Wilson was quieter now and Michaelis wenthome to sleep; when he awoke four hours later and hurriedback to the garage Wilson was gone.His movements—he was on foot all the time—were af-terward traced to Port Roosevelt and then to Gad’s Hillwhere he bought a sandwich that he didn’t eat and a cupof coffee. He must have been tired and walking slowly forhe didn’t reach Gad’s Hill until noon. Thus far there wasno difficulty in accounting for his time—there were boyswho had seen a man ‘acting sort of crazy’ and motorists atwhom he stared oddly from the side of the road. Then forthree hours he disappeared from view. The police, on thestrength of what he said to Michaelis, that he ‘had a way offinding out,’ supposed that he spent that time going fromgarage to garage thereabouts inquiring for a yellow car. Onthe other hand no garage man who had seen him ever cameforward—and perhaps he had an easier, surer way of find-ing out what he wanted to know. By half past two he wasin West Egg where he asked someone the way to Gatsby’shouse. So by that time he knew Gatsby’s name.At two o’clock Gatsby put on his bathing suit and leftFree eBooks at Planet eBook.com11word with the butler that if any one phoned word was to bebrought to him at the pool. He stopped at the garage for apneumatic mattress that had amused his guests during thesummer, and the chauffeur helped him pump it up. Then hegave instructions that the open car wasn’t to be taken outunder any circumstances—and this was strange becausethe front right fender needed repair.Gatsby shouldered the mattress and started for the pool.Once he stopped and shifted it a little, and the chauffeurasked him if he needed help, but he shook his head and in amoment disappeared among the yellowing trees.No telephone message arrived but the butler went with-out his sleep and waited for it until four o’clock—until longafter there was any one to give it to if it came. I have an ideathat Gatsby himself didn’t believe it would come and per-haps he no longer cared. If that was true he must have feltthat he had lost the old warm world, paid a high price forliving too long with a single dream. He must have lookedup at an unfamiliar sky through frightening leaves andshivered as he found what a grotesque thing a rose is andhow raw the sunlight was upon the scarcely created grass. Anew world, material without being real, where poor ghosts,breathing dreams like air, drifted fortuitously about … likethat ashen, fantastic figure gliding toward him through theamorphous trees.The chauffeur—he was one of Wolfshiem’s proteges—heard the shots—afterward he could only say that he hadn’tthought anything much about them. I drove from the sta-tion directly to Gatsby’s house and my rushing anxiously1The Great Gatsbyup the front steps was the first thing that alarmed any one.But they knew then, I firmly believe. With scarcely a wordsaid, four of us, the chauffeur, butler, gardener and I, hur-ried down to the pool.There was a faint, barely perceptible movement of thewater as the fresh flow from one end urged its way towardthe drain at the other. With little ripples that were hardlythe shadows of waves, the laden mattress moved irregularlydown the pool. A small gust of wind that scarcely corrugat-ed the surface was enough to disturb its accidental coursewith its accidental burden. The touch of a cluster of leavesrevolved it slowly, tracing, like the leg of compass, a thin redcircle in the water.It was after we started with Gatsby toward the house thatthe gardener saw Wilson’s body a little way off in the grass,and the holocaust was complete.Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com1Chapter 9After two years I remember the rest of that day, and thatnight and the next day, only as an endless drill of po-lice and photographers and newspaper men in and out ofGatsby’s front door. A rope stretched across the main gateand a policeman by it kept out the curious, but little boyssoon discovered that they could enter through my yard andthere were always a few of them clustered open-mouthedabout the pool. Someone with a positive manner, perhapsa detective, used the expression ‘mad man’ as he bent overWilson’s body that afternoon, and the adventitious author-ity of his voice set the key for the newspaper reports nextmorning.Most of those reports were a nightmare—grotesque, cir-cumstantial, eager and untrue. When Michaelis’s testimonyat the inquest brought to light Wilson’s suspicions of his wifeI thought the whole tale would shortly be served up in racypasquinade—but Catherine, who might have said anything,didn’t say a word. She showed a surprising amount of char-acter about it too—looked at the coroner with determinedeyes under that corrected brow of hers and swore that hersister had never seen Gatsby, that her sister was completelyhappy with her husband, that her sister had been into nomischief whatever. She convinced herself of it and criedinto her handkerchief as if the very suggestion was more1The Great Gatsbythan she could endure. So Wilson was reduced to a man‘deranged by grief’ in order that the case might remain inits simplest form. And it rested there.But all this part of it seemed remote and unessential. Ifound myself on Gatsby’s side, and alone. From the momentI telephoned news of the catastrophe to West Egg village,every surmise about him, and every practical question, wasreferred to me. At first I was surprised and confused; then,as he lay in his house and didn’t move or breathe or speakhour upon hour it grew upon me that I was responsible, be-cause no one else was interested—interested, I mean, withthat intense personal interest to which every one has somevague right at the end.I called up Daisy half an hour after we found him, calledher instinctively and without hesitation. But she and Tomhad gone away early that afternoon, and taken baggage withthem.‘Left no address?’‘No.’‘Say when they’d be back?’‘No.’‘Any idea where they are? How I could reach them?’‘I don’t know. Can’t say.’I wanted to get somebody for him. I wanted to go intothe room where he lay and reassure him: ‘I’ll get somebodyfor you, Gatsby. Don’t worry. Just trust me and I’ll get some-body for you——‘Meyer Wolfshiem’s name wasn’t in the phone book. Thebutler gave me his office address on Broadway and I calledFree eBooks at Planet eBook.com1Information, but by the time I had the number it was longafter five and no one answered the phone.‘Will you ring again?’‘I’ve rung them three times.’‘It’s very important.’‘Sorry. I’m afraid no one’s there.’I went back to the drawing room and thought for an in-stant that they were chance visitors, all these official peoplewho suddenly filled it. But as they drew back the sheet andlooked at Gatsby with unmoved eyes, his protest continuedin my brain.‘Look here, old sport, you’ve got to get somebody for me.You’ve got to try hard. I can’t go through this alone.’Some one started to ask me questions but I broke awayand going upstairs looked hastily through the unlockedparts of his desk—he’d never told me definitely that his par-ents were dead. But there was nothing—only the picture ofDan Cody, a token of forgotten violence staring down fromthe wall.Next morning I sent the butler to New York with a letterto Wolfshiem which asked for information and urged himto come out on the next train. That request seemed super-fluous when I wrote it. I was sure he’d start when he saw thenewspapers, just as I was sure there’d be a wire from Daisybefore noon—but neither a wire nor Mr. Wolfshiem arrived,no one arrived except more police and photographers andnewspaper men. When the butler brought back Wolfshiem’sanswer I began to have a feeling of defiance, of scornful soli-darity between Gatsby and me against them all.1The Great GatsbyDear Mr. Carraway. This has been one of the most terribleshocks of my life to me I hardly can believe it that it is trueat al . Such a mad act as that man did should make us allthink. I cannot come down now as I am tied up in some veryimportant business and cannot get mixed up in this thingnow. If there is anything I can do a little later let me know in aletter by Edgar. I hardly know where I am when I hear abouta thing like this and am completely knocked down and out.YourstrulyMEYER WOLFSHIEMand then hasty addenda beneath:Let me know about the funeral etc do not know his family atal .When the phone rang that afternoon and Long Distancesaid Chicago was calling I thought this would be Daisy atlast. But the connection came through as a man’s voice, verythin and far away.‘This is Slagle speaking. . ’‘Yes?’ The name was unfamiliar.‘Hell of a note, isn’t it? Get my wire?’‘There haven’t been any wires.’‘Young Parke’s in trouble,’ he said rapidly. ‘They pickedhim up when he handed the bonds over the counter. Theygot a circular from New York giving ‘em the numbers justfive minutes before. What d’you know about that, hey? Younever can tell in these hick towns——‘Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com1‘Hello!’ I interrupted breathlessly. ‘Look here—this isn’tMr. Gatsby. Mr. Gatsby’s dead.’There was a long silence on the other end of the wire,followed by an exclamation … then a quick squawk as theconnection was broken.I think it was on the third day that a telegram signedHenry C. Gatz arrived from a town in Minnesota. It saidonly that the sender was leaving immediately and to post-pone the funeral until he came.It was Gatsby’s father, a solemn old man very helplessand dismayed, bundled up in a long cheap ulster againstthe warm September day. His eyes leaked continuously withexcitement and when I took the bag and umbrella from hishands he began to pull so incessantly at his sparse greybeard that I had difficulty in getting off his coat. He wason the point of collapse so I took him into the music roomand made him sit down while I sent for something to eat.But he wouldn’t eat and the glass of milk spilled from histrembling hand.‘I saw it in the Chicago newspaper,’ he said. ‘It was all inthe Chicago newspaper. I started right away.’‘I didn’t know how to reach you.’His eyes, seeing nothing, moved ceaselessly about theroom.‘It was a mad man,’ he said. ‘He must have been mad.’‘Wouldn’t you like some coffee?’ I urged him.‘I don’t want anything. I’m all right now, Mr.——‘‘Carraway.’‘Well, I’m all right now. Where have they got Jimmy?’1The Great GatsbyI took him into the drawing-room, where his son lay, andleft him there. Some little boys had come up on the stepsand were looking into the hall; when I told them who hadarrived they went reluctantly away.After a little while Mr. Gatz opened the door and cameout, his mouth ajar, his face flushed slightly, his eyes leak-ing isolated and unpunctual tears. He had reached an agewhere death no longer has the quality of ghastly surprise,and when he looked around him now for the first time andsaw the height and splendor of the hall and the great roomsopening out from it into other rooms his grief began to bemixed with an awed pride. I helped him to a bedroom up-stairs; while he took off his coat and vest I told him that allarrangements had been deferred until he came.‘I didn’t know what you’d want, Mr. Gatsby——‘‘Gatz is my name.’‘—Mr. Gatz. I thought you might want to take the bodywest.’He shook his head.‘Jimmy always liked it better down East. He rose up to hisposition in the East. Were you a friend of my boy’s, Mr.—?’‘We were close friends.’‘He had a big future before him, you know. He was only ayoung man but he had a lot of brain power here.’He touched his head impressively and I nodded.‘If he’d of lived he’d of been a great man. A man likeJames J. Hill. He’d of helped build up the country.’‘That’s true,’ I said, uncomfortably.He fumbled at the embroidered coverlet, trying to take itFree eBooks at Planet eBook.com1from the bed, and lay down stiffly—was instantly asleep.That night an obviously frightened person called upand demanded to know who I was before he would give hisname.‘This is Mr. Carraway,’ I said.‘Oh—’ He sounded relieved. ‘This is Klipspringer.’I was relieved too for that seemed to promise anotherfriend at Gatsby’s grave. I didn’t want it to be in the papersand draw a sightseeing crowd so I’d been calling up a fewpeople myself. They were hard to find.‘The funeral’s tomorrow,’ I said. ‘Three o’clock, here atthe house. I wish you’d tell anybody who’d be interested.’‘Oh, I will,’ he broke out hastily. ‘Of course I’m not likelyto see anybody, but if I do.’His tone made me suspicious.‘Of course you’ll be there yourself.’‘Well, I’ll certainly try. What I called up about is——‘‘Wait a minute,’ I interrupted. ‘How about saying you’llcome?’‘Well, the fact is—the truth of the matter is that I’m stay-ing with some people up here in Greenwich and they ratherexpect me to be with them tomorrow. In fact there’s a sortof picnic or something. Of course I’ll do my very best to getaway.’I ejaculated an unrestrained ‘Huh!’ and he must haveheard me for he went on nervously:‘What I called up about was a pair of shoes I left there. Iwonder if it’d be too much trouble to have the butler sendthem on. You see they’re tennis shoes and I’m sort of help-10The Great Gatsbyless without them. My address is care of B. F.——‘I didn’t hear the rest of the name because I hung up thereceiver.After that I felt a certain shame for Gatsby—one gentle-man to whom I telephoned implied that he had got whathe deserved. However, that was my fault, for he was one ofthose who used to sneer most bitterly at Gatsby on the cour-age of Gatsby’s liquor and I should have known better thanto call him.The morning of the funeral I went up to New York to seeMeyer Wolfshiem; I couldn’t seem to reach him any otherway. The door that I pushed open on the advice of an eleva-tor boy was marked ‘The Swastika Holding Company’ andat first there didn’t seem to be any one inside. But when I’dshouted ‘Hello’ several times in vain an argument broke outbehind a partition and presently a lovely Jewess appearedat an interior door and scrutinized me with black hostileeyes.‘Nobody’s in,’ she said. ‘Mr. Wolfshiem’s gone to Chica-go.’The first part of this was obviously untrue for someonehad begun to whistle ‘The Rosary,’ tunelessly, inside.‘Please say that Mr. Carraway wants to see him.’‘I can’t get him back from Chicago, can I?’At this moment a voice, unmistakably Wolfshiem’s called‘Stella!’ from the other side of the door.‘Leave your name on the desk,’ she said quickly. ‘I’ll giveit to him when he gets back.’‘But I know he’s there.’Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com11She took a step toward me and began to slide her handsindignantly up and down her hips.‘You young men think you can force your way in here anytime,’ she scolded. ‘We’re getting sickantired of it. When Isay he’s in Chicago, he’s in ChiCAgo.’I mentioned Gatsby.‘Oh—h!’ She looked at me over again. ‘Will you just—what was your name?’She vanished. In a moment Meyer Wolfshiem stood sol-emnly in the doorway, holding out both hands. He drew meinto his office, remarking in a reverent voice that it was a sadtime for all of us, and offered me a cigar.‘My memory goes back to when I first met him,’ he said.‘A young major just out of the army and covered over withmedals he got in the war. He was so hard up he had to keepon wearing his uniform because he couldn’t buy some reg-ular clothes. First time I saw him was when he come intoWinebrenner’s poolroom at Forty-third Street and askedfor a job. He hadn’t eat anything for a couple of days. ‘Comeon have some lunch with me,’ I sid. He ate more than fourdollars’ worth of food in half an hour.’‘Did you start him in business?’ I inquired.‘Start him! I made him.’‘Oh.’‘I raised him up out of nothing, right out of the gutter. Isaw right away he was a fine appearing, gentlemanly youngman, and when he told me he was an Oggsford I knew Icould use him good. I got him to join up in the AmericanLegion and he used to stand high there. Right off he did1The Great Gatsbysome work for a client of mine up to Albany. We were sothick like that in everything—’ He held up two bulbous fin-gers ‘—always together.’I wondered if this partnership had included the World’sSeries transaction in 1919.‘Now he’s dead,’ I said after a moment. ‘You were hisclosest friend, so I know you’ll want to come to his funeralthis afternoon.’‘I’d like to come.’‘Well, come then.’The hair in his nostrils quivered slightly and as he shookhis head his eyes filled with tears.‘I can’t do it—I can’t get mixed up in it,’ he said.‘There’s nothing to get mixed up in. It’s all over now.’‘When a man gets killed I never like to get mixed up init in any way. I keep out. When I was a young man it wasdifferent—if a friend of mine died, no matter how, I stuckwith them to the end. You may think that’s sentimental butI mean it—to the bitter end.’I saw that for some reason of his own he was determinednot to come, so I stood up.‘Are you a college man?’ he inquired suddenly.For a moment I thought he was going to suggest a ‘gon-negtion’ but he only nodded and shook my hand.‘Let us learn to show our friendship for a man when he isalive and not after he is dead,’ he suggested. ‘After that myown rule is to let everything alone.’When I left his office the sky had turned dark and I gotback to West Egg in a drizzle. After changing my clothes IFree eBooks at Planet eBook.com1went next door and found Mr. Gatz walking up and downexcitedly in the hall. His pride in his son and in his son’spossessions was continually increasing and now he hadsomething to show me.‘Jimmy sent me this picture.’ He took out his wallet withtrembling fingers. ‘Look there.’It was a photograph of the house, cracked in the cornersand dirty with many hands. He pointed out every detail tome eagerly. ‘Look there!’ and then sought admiration frommy eyes. He had shown it so often that I think it was morereal to him now than the house itself.‘Jimmy sent it to me. I think it’s a very pretty picture. Itshows up well.’‘Very well. Had you seen him lately?’‘He come out to see me two years ago and bought me thehouse I live in now. Of course we was broke up when he runoff from home but I see now there was a reason for it. Heknew he had a big future in front of him. And ever since hemade a success he was very generous with me.’He seemed reluctant to put away the picture, held it foranother minute, lingeringly, before my eyes. Then he re-turned the wallet and pulled from his pocket a ragged oldcopy of a book called ‘Hopalong Cassidy.’‘Look here, this is a book he had when he was a boy. Itjust shows you.’He opened it at the back cover and turned it around forme to see. On the last fly-leaf was printed the word SCHED-ULE, and the date September 12th, 1906. And underneath:1The Great GatsbyRise from bed … … … … …. 6.00 A.M.Dumbbell exercise and wal -scaling … … 6.15-6.30 A.M.Study electricity, etc … … … … 7.15-8.15 A.M.Work … … … … … … … 8.30-4.30 P.M.Baseball and sports … … … …. 4.30-5.00 P.M.Practice elocution, poise and how to attain it 5.00-6.00 P.M.Study needed inventions … … …. . 7.00-9.00 P.M.GENERAL RESOLVESNo wasting time at Shafters or [a name, indecipherable]NomoresmokeingorchewingBatheveryotherdayRead one improving book or magazine per weekSave$5.00[crossedout]$3.00perweekBe better to parents‘I come across this book by accident,’ said the old man. ‘Itjust shows you, don’t it?’‘It just shows you.’‘Jimmy was bound to get ahead. He always had some re-solves like this or something. Do you notice what he’s gotabout improving his mind? He was always great for that. Hetold me I et like a hog once and I beat him for it.’He was reluctant to close the book, reading each itemaloud and then looking eagerly at me. I think he rather ex-pected me to copy down the list for my own use.A little before three the Lutheran minister arrived fromFlushing and I began to look involuntarily out the windowsfor other cars. So did Gatsby’s father. And as the time passedFree eBooks at Planet eBook.com1and the servants came in and stood waiting in the hall, hiseyes began to blink anxiously and he spoke of the rain in aworried uncertain way. The minister glanced several timesat his watch so I took him aside and asked him to wait forhalf an hour. But it wasn’t any use. Nobody came.About five o’clock our procession of three cars reachedthe cemetery and stopped in a thick drizzle beside thegate—first a motor hearse, horribly black and wet, then Mr.Gatz and the minister and I in the limousine, and, a littlelater, four or five servants and the postman from West Eggin Gatsby’s station wagon, all wet to the skin. As we startedthrough the gate into the cemetery I heard a car stop andthen the sound of someone splashing after us over the sog-gy ground. I looked around. It was the man with owl-eyedglasses whom I had found marvelling over Gatsby’s booksin the library one night three months before.I’d never seen him since then. I don’t know how he knewabout the funeral or even his name. The rain poured downhis thick glasses and he took them off and wiped them to seethe protecting canvas unrolled from Gatsby’s grave.I tried to think about Gatsby then for a moment but hewas already too far away and I could only remember, with-out resentment, that Daisy hadn’t sent a message or a flower.Dimly I heard someone murmur ‘Blessed are the dead thatthe rain falls on,’ and then the owl-eyed man said ‘Amen tothat,’ in a brave voice.We straggled down quickly through the rain to the cars.Owl-Eyes spoke to me by the gate.‘I couldn’t get to the house,’ he remarked.1The Great Gatsby‘Neither could anybody else.’‘Go on!’ He started. ‘Why, my God! they used to go thereby the hundreds.’He took off his glasses and wiped them again outside andin. ‘The poor son-of-a-bitch,’ he said.One of my most vivid memories is of coming back westfrom prep school and later from college at Christmas time.Those who went farther than Chicago would gather in theold dim Union Station at six o’clock of a December eveningwith a few Chicago friends already caught up into their ownholiday gayeties to bid them a hasty goodbye. I remember thefur coats of the girls returning from Miss This or That’s andthe chatter of frozen breath and the hands waving overheadas we caught sight of old acquaintances and the matchingsof invitations: ‘Are you going to the Ordways’? the Herseys’?the Schultzes’?’ and the long green tickets clasped tight inour gloved hands. And last the murky yellow cars of theChicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railroad looking cheerfulas Christmas itself on the tracks beside the gate.When we pulled out into the winter night and the realsnow, our snow, began to stretch out beside us and twinkleagainst the windows, and the dim lights of small Wisconsinstations moved by, a sharp wild brace came suddenly intothe air. We drew in deep breaths of it as we walked backfrom dinner through the cold vestibules, unutterably awareof our identity with this country for one strange hour beforewe melted indistinguishably into it again.That’s my middle west—not the wheat or the prairies orFree eBooks at Planet eBook.com1the lost Swede towns but the thrilling, returning trains ofmy youth and the street lamps and sleigh bells in the frostydark and the shadows of holly wreaths thrown by lightedwindows on the snow. I am part of that, a little solemn withthe feel of those long winters, a little complacent from grow-ing up in the Carraway house in a city where dwellings arestill called through decades by a family’s name. I see nowthat this has been a story of the West, after all—Tom andGatsby, Daisy and Jordan and I, were all Westerners, andperhaps we possessed some deficiency in common whichmade us subtly unadaptable to Eastern life.Even when the East excited me most, even when I wasmost keenly aware of its superiority to the bored, sprawling,swollen towns beyond the Ohio, with their interminableinquisitions which spared only the children and the veryold—even then it had always for me a quality of distor-tion. West Egg especially still figures in my more fantasticdreams. I see it as a night scene by El Greco: a hundredhouses, at once conventional and grotesque, crouchingunder a sullen, overhanging sky and a lustreless moon. Inthe foreground four solemn men in dress suits are walkingalong the sidewalk with a stretcher on which lies a drunkenwoman in a white evening dress. Her hand, which danglesover the side, sparkles cold with jewels. Gravely the menturn in at a house—the wrong house. But no one knows thewoman’s name, and no one cares.After Gatsby’s death the East was haunted for me likethat, distorted beyond my eyes’ power of correction. Sowhen the blue smoke of brittle leaves was in the air and1The Great Gatsbythe wind blew the wet laundry stiff on the line I decided tocome back home.There was one thing to be done before I left, an awk-ward, unpleasant thing that perhaps had better have beenlet alone. But I wanted to leave things in order and not justtrust that obliging and indifferent sea to sweep my refuseaway. I saw Jordan Baker and talked over and around whathad happened to us together and what had happened af-terward to me, and she lay perfectly still listening in a bigchair.She was dressed to play golf and I remember thinkingshe looked like a good illustration, her chin raised a little,jauntily, her hair the color of an autumn leaf, her face thesame brown tint as the fingerless glove on her knee. WhenI had finished she told me without comment that she wasengaged to another man. I doubted that though there wereseveral she could have married at a nod of her head but Ipretended to be surprised. For just a minute I wondered ifI wasn’t making a mistake, then I thought it all over againquickly and got up to say goodbye.‘Nevertheless you did throw me over,’ said Jordan sud-denly. ‘You threw me over on the telephone. I don’t give adamn about you now but it was a new experience for meand I felt a little dizzy for a while.’We shook hands.‘Oh, and do you remember—’ she added, ‘——a conver-sation we had once about driving a car?’‘Why—not exactly.’‘You said a bad driver was only safe until she met an-Free eBooks at Planet eBook.com1other bad driver? Well, I met another bad driver, didn’t I?I mean it was careless of me to make such a wrong guess. Ithought you were rather an honest, straightforward person.I thought it was your secret pride.’‘I’m thirty,’ I said. ‘I’m five years too old to lie to myselfand call it honor.’She didn’t answer. Angry, and half in love with her, andtremendously sorry, I turned away.One afternoon late in October I saw Tom Buchanan. Hewas walking ahead of me along Fifth Avenue in his alert,aggressive way, his hands out a little from his body as if tofight off interference, his head moving sharply here andthere, adapting itself to his restless eyes. Just as I slowed upto avoid overtaking him he stopped and began frowninginto the windows of a jewelry store. Suddenly he saw meand walked back holding out his hand.‘What’s the matter, Nick? Do you object to shaking handswith me?’‘Yes. You know what I think of you.’‘You’re crazy, Nick,’ he said quickly. ‘Crazy as hell. I don’tknow what’s the matter with you.’‘Tom,’ I inquired, ‘what did you say to Wilson that af-ternoon?’He stared at me without a word and I knew I had guessedright about those missing hours. I started to turn away buthe took a step after me and grabbed my arm.‘I told him the truth,’ he said. ‘He came to the door whilewe were getting ready to leave and when I sent down wordthat we weren’t in he tried to force his way upstairs. He was10The Great Gatsbycrazy enough to kill me if I hadn’t told him who owned thecar. His hand was on a revolver in his pocket every minutehe was in the house——’ He broke off defiantly. ‘What if Idid tell him? That fellow had it coming to him. He threwdust into your eyes just like he did in Daisy’s but he was atough one. He ran over Myrtle like you’d run over a dog andnever even stopped his car.’There was nothing I could say, except the one unutter-able fact that it wasn’t true.‘And if you think I didn’t have my share of suffering—look here, when I went to give up that flat and saw thatdamn box of dog biscuits sitting there on the sideboard I satdown and cried like a baby. By God it was awful——‘I couldn’t forgive him or like him but I saw that whathe had done was, to him, entirely justified. It was all verycareless and confused. They were careless people, Tom andDaisy—they smashed up things and creatures and then re-treated back into their money or their vast carelessness orwhatever it was that kept them together, and let other peo-ple clean up the mess they had made….I shook hands with him; it seemed silly not to, for I feltsuddenly as though I were talking to a child. Then he wentinto the jewelry store to buy a pearl necklace—or perhapsonly a pair of cuff buttons—rid of my provincial squea-mishness forever.Gatsby’s house was still empty when I left—the grass onhis lawn had grown as long as mine. One of the taxi driv-ers in the village never took a fare past the entrance gatewithout stopping for a minute and pointing inside; perhapsFree eBooks at Planet eBook.com11it was he who drove Daisy and Gatsby over to East Egg thenight of the accident and perhaps he had made a story aboutit all his own. I didn’t want to hear it and I avoided himwhen I got off the train.I spent my Saturday nights in New York because thosegleaming, dazzling parties of his were with me so vividlythat I could still hear the music and the laughter faint andincessant from his garden and the cars going up and downhis drive. One night I did hear a material car there and sawits lights stop at his front steps. But I didn’t investigate.Probably it was some final guest who had been away at theends of the earth and didn’t know that the party was over.On the last night, with my trunk packed and my car soldto the grocer, I went over and looked at that huge incoherentfailure of a house once more. On the white steps an obsceneword, scrawled by some boy with a piece of brick, stood outclearly in the moonlight and I erased it, drawing my shoeraspingly along the stone. Then I wandered down to thebeach and sprawled out on the sand.Most of the big shore places were closed now and therewere hardly any lights except the shadowy, moving glow ofa ferryboat across the Sound. And as the moon rose higherthe inessential houses began to melt away until gradually Ibecame aware of the old island here that flowered once forDutch sailors’ eyes—a fresh, green breast of the new world.Its vanished trees, the trees that had made way for Gats-by’s house, had once pandered in whispers to the last andgreatest of all human dreams; for a transitory enchantedmoment man must have held his breath in the presence of1The Great Gatsbythis continent, compelled into an aesthetic contemplationhe neither understood nor desired, face to face for the lasttime in history with something commensurate to his capac-ity for wonder.And as I sat there brooding on the old, unknown world,I thought of Gatsby’s wonder when he first picked out thegreen light at the end of Daisy’s dock. He had come a longway to this blue lawn and his dream must have seemed soclose that he could hardly fail to grasp it. He did not knowthat it was already behind him, somewhere back in that vastobscurity beyond the city, where the dark fields of the re-public rolled on under the night.Gatsby believed in the green light, the orgastic futurethat year by year recedes before us. It eluded us then, butthat’s no matter—tomorrow we will run faster, stretch outour arms farther…. And one fine morning——So we beat on, boats against the current, borne backceaselessly into the past.THE ENDFree eBooks at Planet eBook.com1Document Outline
The Great Gatsby Chapter 1Chapter 2Chapter 3Chapter 4Chapter 5Chapter 6Chapter 7Chapter 8Chapter 9How to share this eBookFree eBooks at Planet eBook